G01 A server shall host the RMOS and provide system data processing and storage capability.
G02 A surface computer shall provide a customer with all customer system functionality.
G03 A tablet shall provide a waiter/supervisor with all waiter/supervisor system functionality (according to access control).
G04 A display shall provide a chef with all chef system functionality.
G05 All system functionality shall be accessible through touch sensitive surface computers, tablets and displays via simple touch gestures.
G06 A tablet shall be capable of interfacing with a register to facilitate the accurate processing of a payment.

C01 A customer shall be able to engage their menu by double tapping the activated surface computer in their table.
C02 A customer shall be able to dismiss their menu by double tapping its dismiss option.
C03 A customer shall be able to create an empty pending order through their engaged menu.
C04 A customer shall not be able to dismiss their engaged menu while there is a non-empty pending order associated with the engaged menu.
C05 A customer shall be able to navigate through the available items in their engaged menu.
C06 A customer shall be able to add an item to a pending order by dragging the item from the engaged menu onto the order.
C07 A customer shall be able to remove an item from a pending order by dragging the item off the order.
C08 A customer shall be able to add a special dietary requirement to an order by dragging the requirement from the engaged menu onto the order.
C09 A customer shall be able to add a wildcard special dietary requirement to an order in the case that their requirement is not represented by the system.
C10 A customer shall be able to place an order through their engaged menu if it is pending and not empty.
C11 A customer shall be able to cancel an order through their engaged menu if it is pending and not yet placed.
C12 A customer shall be able to call for waiter assistance through their engaged menu.
C13 A customer shall be able to engage bill mode to finalise payment through their engaged menu.
C14 A customer shall be able to disengage bill mode to cancel the billing process through their engaged menu.
C15 When in billing mode, a surface computer shall display a representation of a cash payment for the whole table.
C16 When in billing mode, a surface computer shall display a representation of a bankcard payment for each customer.
C17 When in billing mode, a surface computer shall display a representation of every meal ordered that may each be dragged into a payment.
C18 When in billing mode, a surface computer shall display a representation of tip denominations that may be dragged into a payment.
C19 A customer shall be able to drag a meal into a bankcard payment or a cash payment.
C20 A customer shall be able to drag a meal out of a bankcard payment or a cash payment.
C21 A customer shall be able to drag a tip denomination into a bankcard payment or a cash payment.
C22 A customer shall be able to drag a tip denomination out of a bankcard payment or a cash payment.

W01 A waiter shall be able to log into a tablet using their assigned username and password.
W02 A waiter shall be able to log out of a tablet.
W03 A waiter shall be able to activate a surface computer and consequently open its associated account through a tablet.
W04 A waiter shall be able to deactivate a surface computer and consequently close its associated account through a tablet.
W05 A waiter who activates a surface computer shall be assigned to the table that contains it.
W06 A waiter assigned to a table shall be alerted via their wireless tablet when:
   • An order is placed from that table
   • An item ordered by that table is rejected by the kitchen
   • An item ordered by that table is ready to be served
   • The table has requested waiter assistance
W07 A tablet shall allow a waiter to accept an order placed by a customer through a surface computer.
W08 A tablet shall allow a waiter to reject an order placed by a customer through a surface computer.
W09 A tablet shall allow a waiter to indicate the delivery of an item to its customer.
W10 A tablet shall allow a waiter to process a payment using cash.
W11 A tablet shall allow a waiter to process a payment using a bankcard.

K01 A chef shall be able to accept a customer’s order item through a display.
K02 A chef shall be able to reject a customer’s order item through a display.
K03 A chef shall be able to indicate that a customer’s order item is ready to be served through a display.

S01 A supervisor shall be able to do everything a waiter can.
S02 A supervisor shall be able to do everything a chef can.
S03 A supervisor shall be able to abort/purge a customer’s meal from the active system with no expectation of payment.
S04 A supervisor shall be able to abort/purge a table's account/meals from the active system with no expectation of payment.
S05 A supervisor shall be able to issue a refund for one or more items to a customer.