Back end functionalities

Administrator
FR-A1 The system shall allow the administrator to install modules.
FR-A2 The system shall allow the administrator to uninstall modules.
FR-A3 The system shall allow the administrator to configure the distribution map projection.
FR-A4 The system shall allow the administrator to configure the distribution map default extent.
FR-A5 The system shall allow the administrator to edit the email server configuration (URL, port, account).
FR-A6 The system shall allow the administrator to add a spatial layer to the distribution map.
FR-A7 The system shall allow the administrator to remove a spatial layer from the distribution map.
FR-A8 The system shall allow the administrator to edit the name of a spatial layer of the distribution map.
FR-A9 The system shall allow the administrator to view error logs.
FR-A10 The system shall allow the administrator to download error logs.
FR-A11 The system shall allow the security officer to create a new user account.
FR-A12 The system shall allow the security officer to delete a user account.
FR-A13 The system shall allow the security officer to assign a role to a user account.
FR-A14 The system shall allow the security officer to remove a role from a user account.
FR-A15 The system shall allow the security officer to edit the email address associated with a user account.
FR-A16 The system shall allow the security officer to view audit logs
FR-A17 The system shall allow the security officer to download audit log entries for a given month.

Data manager
FR-DM1 The system shall allow the data manager to import an occurrence resource.
FR-DM2 The system shall allow the data manager to delete an occurrence resource.
FR-DM3 The system shall allow the data manager to edit the metadata of an occurrence resource.
FR-DM4 The system shall allow the data manager to search occurrence resources by keywords.
FR-DM5 The system shall allow the data manager to import a checklist resource.
FR-DM6 The system shall allow the data manager to delete a checklist resource.
FR-DM7 The system shall allow the data manager to edit the metadata of a checklist resource.
FR-DM8 The system shall allow the data manager to search checklist resources by keywords.
FR-DM9 The system shall allow the data manager to import a multimedia resource.
FR-DM10 The system shall allow the data manager to delete a multimedia resource.
FR-DM11 The system shall allow the data manager to edit the metadata of a multimedia resource.
FR-DM12 The system shall allow the data manager to search multimedia resources by keywords.
FR-DM13 The system shall allow the data manager to import a bibliographic resource.
FR-DM14 The system shall allow the data manager to delete a bibliographic resource.
FR-DM15 The system shall allow the data manager to edit the metadata of a bibliographic resource.
FR-DM16 The system shall allow the data manager to search bibliographic resources by keywords.
FR-DM17 The system shall allow the data manager to import an institution resource.
FR-DM18 The system shall allow the data manager to delete an institution resource.
FR-DM19 The system shall allow the data manager to edit the metadata of an institution resource.
FR-DM20 The system shall allow the data manager to search institution resources by keywords.
FR-DM21 The system shall allow the data manager to import an expert resource.
FR-DM22 The system shall allow the data manager to delete an expert resource.
FR-DM23 The system shall allow the data manager to edit the metadata of an expert.
FR-DM24 The system shall allow the data manager to search expert resources by keywords.
FR-DM25 The system shall allow the data manager to register a GBIF index data source.
FR-DM26 The system shall allow the data manager to register an IPT data source.
FR-DM27 The system shall allow the data manager to unregister an IPT data source.
FR-DM28 The system shall allow the data manager to unregister a GBIF index data source.
FR-DM29 Schedule a harvesting job.
FR-DM30 Cancel an harvesting job.
FR-DM31 View report for a harvesting jobs.
FR-DM32 Check core resources consistency with registered data sources.
FR-DM33 Trigger a harvesting job.
FR-DM34 The system shall allow the data manager to request restoration of the latest backup.
FR-DM35 Update taxonomic backbone.
FR-DM36 Install an extension.
FR-DM37 Monitor portal usage.

Portal manager
FR-PM1 The system shall allow the portal manager to configure data metrics visibility.
FR-PM2 The system shall allow the portal manager to change the logo displayed on the portal.
FR-PM3 The system shall allow the portal manager to change the Node name displayed on the portal.
FR-PM4 The system shall allow the portal manager to change the portal banner.
FR-PM5 The system shall allow the portal manager to configure the name and email of the portal contact person.
FR-PM6 The system shall allow the portal manager to configure the Network summary information.
FR-PM7 The system shall allow the portal manager to choose the default language of the portal.
FR-PM8 The system shall allow the portal manager to add an alternate language to the portal.
FR-PM9 The system shall allow the portal manager to remove an alternate language to the portal.
FR-PM10 The system shall allow the portal manager to contribute a portal news entry.
FR-PM11 The system shall allow the portal manager to edit a portal news entry.
FR-PM12 The system shall allow the portal manager to delete a portal news entry.
FR-PM13 The system shall allow the portal manager to contribute a blog post.
FR-PM14 The system shall allow the portal manager to edit a blog post.
FR-PM15 The system shall allow the portal manager to delete a blog post.
FR-PM16 The system shall allow the portal manager to manage the portal menu.
FR-PM17 The system shall allow the portal manager to add a page to the portal.
FR-PM18 The system shall allow the portal manager to delete a page from the portal.
FR-PM19 The system shall allow the portal manager to edit a page from the portal.
FR-PM20 The system shall allow the portal manager to edit the HTML metadata tags for the portal pages to help the portal to be discoverable through search engines.

Front-end functionalities

Visitor
FR-V1 The system shall allow a visitor to build an occurrence selection filter.
FR-V2 The system shall allow a visitor to add a taxonomic criterion to a filter.
FR-V3 The system shall allow a visitor to add a dataset criterion to a filter.
FR-V4 The system shall allow a visitor to add a depth criterion to a filter.
FR-V5 The system shall allow a visitor to add an altitude criterion to a filter.
FR-V6 The system shall allow a visitor to add a basis of records criterion to a filter.
FR-V7 The system shall allow a visitor to add a geographic criterion to a filter.
FR-V8 The system shall allow a visitor to add a date criterion to a filter.
FR-V9 The system shall allow a visitor to remove a criterion from a filter.
FR-V10 The system shall allow a visitor to select occurrence records using a filter.
FR-V11 The system shall allow a visitor to view the distribution map for an occurrence record selection.
FR-V12 The system shall allow a visitor to view an occurrence record selection as a table.
FR-V13 The system shall allow a visitor to export an occurrence record selection.
FR-V14 The system shall allow a visitor to export the distribution map for an occurrence record selection as an image.
FR-V15 The system shall allow a visitor to search all the portal content using full text search.
FR-V16 The system shall allow a visitor to contact an occurrence resource publisher.
FR-V17 The system shall allow a visitor to export a checklist.
FR-V18 The system shall allow a visitor to choose his preferred language for the portal interface.
FR-V19 The system shall allow a visitor to send feedback to the portal contact person.
FR-V20 The system shall allow a visitor to view latest blog posts.
FR-V21 The system shall allow a visitor to read a blog post.
FR-V22 The system shall allow a visitor to view latest portal news entries.
FR-V23 The system shall allow a visitor to read a portal news entry.
FR-V24 The system shall allow a visitor to view details for a taxon.
FR-V25 The system shall allow a visitor to view metadata for a dataset.
FR-V26 The system shall allow a visitor to view metadata for a checklist.
FR-V27 The system shall allow a visitor to view details for a bibliographic record.
FR-V28 The system shall allow a visitor to view details for an institution.
FR-V29 The system shall allow a visitor to view details for an expert.
FR-V30 The system shall allow a visitor to view metadata for a multimedia file.
FR-V31 The system shall allow a visitor to download a multimedia file.
FR-V32 The system shall allow a visitor to navigate (pan, zoom in and out) a distribution map.
FR-V33 The system shall allow a visitor to toggle spatial layers visible/hidden on a distribution map.
FR-V34 The system shall allow a visitor to register.
FR-V35 The system shall allow a visitor to access the log in functionality.
FR-V36 The system shall allow a visitor to request to be sent his password by email.
FR-V37 The system shall allow a visitor to share a distribution map on twitter.
FR-V38 The system shall allow a visitor to access a dashboard displaying data metrics for the portal.
FR-V39 The system shall allow a visitor to export data metric archives for the portal.
FR-V40 The system shall allow a visitor to view Network summary information.
FR-V41 The system shall allow a visitor to view information about tools and services offered by the portal.
FR-V42 The system shall allow a visitor to view latest news from GBIF newsfeeds relayed by the system.

Registered visitor
FR-RV1 The system shall allow a registered visitor to save a custom filter.
FR-RV2 The system shall allow a registered visitor to load a custom filter.
FR-RV3 The system shall allow a registered visitor to delete a custom filter.