Patron

A Patron is a resident of the State of Georgia, either possessing a library card or not, utilizing the resources of a PINES member library.
Staff

Staff includes paid employees of PINES member libraries who are involved in designing and providing services for the Library.
Local System Administrators

Local System Administrators include management staff who oversee Library processes.
Library Managers

Library Managers supervise a single organizational unit and provide input to the design and implementation of Library services.
Library Directors

Library Directors include members of the Library Executive Team who plan and direct Library services and priorities
Global System Administrator

Global System Administrators manage PINES at the consortium level, implementing software changes and configurations, and generating statistical reports for PINES as a whole.

System Requirements
Category: Management Tools: General
Req ID: PINES-001 Priority: 1
Name: streamlined staff login
Description: The system supports (but does not require) streamlined staff login methods, for example staff member swipes a card to log into a terminal or the staff member logs into a terminal by using his/her individual login and password.
Source: Reports Working Group (RWG)

Req ID: PINES-002 Priority: 1
Name: report templates
Description: System administrators can create reliable report templates that are available to staff, and can be run as is or modified to the staff person's particular needs. Changes in the templates could be done without comprising the results. The administrator can limit the filters and display fields that can be altered to certify a dependable output. For example, front-line staff could set the call number range for a weeding report or add or remove designated display fields from a pick list, but couldn’t alter the template to display deleted items.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-003 Priority: 1
Name: reports permissions
Description: System provides distinct, fine-grained permission levels limiting who can create and clone reports. All permissions should be easy to administer. System administrators can create shared folders to allow or disallow staff to run specific reports, and/or to run ad hoc reports on specific sets of data.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-004 Priority: 1
Name: query tool
Description: System provides a user-friendly interface for designing queries against all record types. Staff can select fields to query; select values from picklist of possible values; select regular expressions from drop-down menu, and use a full range of Boolean operators. Administrators control staff access to tables and fields.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-005 Priority: 1
Name: board reports
Description: The system provides pre-defined reports for consumption by library boards or other consumers. There will be reports providing basic statistics like those required by the Georgia Annual Report and Application for State Aid and activity reports that indicate traffic and volume of use that display statistics on check-outs, check-ins, holds placed, and holds filled. It should be possible cross-tabulated per terminal, per branch, per library system, per hour, per patron age range, per patron type, and per patron location.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-006 Priority: 1
Name: transaction data archive
Description: Transactions are archived in a form that protects patron privacy as defined by State Law, while providing useful demographic statistics.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-007 Priority: 1
Name: periodic reports, examples
Description: Examples of periodic reports: bibliographic records with holds; items that have not been checked out in X days; item-level holds; items with invalid item type; in-transit items with outstanding hold; items that have been in-transit for more than X days; items that are the last copy in the
system; items with a long call number; missing items; bibliographic records with no item records; patrons with invalid home library.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-008 Priority: 1
Name: Query selections
Description: System provides the query selections along with the results.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-009 Priority: 1
Name: Reports queuing 
Description: Ability to see where your report is in the queue of reports waiting to run.
Source: RWG

NOTE:  Req IDs PINES-010 and PINES-011 refer to Appendix A & B, which were developed based on working knowledge of Evergreen ILS version 1.4.0.4 and terms in those appendices refer to specific aspects of that product.

Req ID: PINES-010 Priority: 1
Name: PINES-Specific Reports Examples
Description: System must be able to support the reporting definitions as described in Appendix A.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-011 Priority: 1
Name: PINES-Specific Fine-Grained Requirements
Description: System must be able to support the fine-grained reports requirements as described in Appendix B.
Source: RWG 

Category: Management Tools: Demographics
Req ID: PINES-012 Priority: 1
Name: behavior and use analysis
Description: The system produces statistics that can be used to understand and predict patron behavior and use of materials. For example, how quickly is a particular book returned, on average? How likely is a particular book to be renewed? What percent of check-outs at a particular branch are renewals?
Source: RWG
Req ID: PINES-013 Priority: 1
Name: demographic statistics
Description: The system produces useful demographic statistics, including transactions by geographical regions, age ranges, etc. The data used to produce these statistics must be anonymized, i.e. information that could be used to identify a patron is deleted.
Source: RWG

Category: Management Tools: Inventory Control
Req ID: PINES-014 Priority: 1
Name: material volume report
Description: Ability to report on the volume of material in a given library at any point in time, based on new acquisitions, items on the shelf, and items out in circulation, with the ability to break down volume in categories (e.g. total items in library, number of holds, number of adult fiction, number of board books, etc).
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-015 Priority: 1
Name: system capacity interface
Description: The system provides an interface showing capacity of all branches (as defined in PINES-014).
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-016 Priority: 1
Name: shelf space report
Description: For each genre and format of material, ability to compare the percentage of total circulations, the percentage of the collection, and the percentage of total shelf space that genre/format comprises. Ability to report per library and per system.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-017 Priority: 1
Name: uncataloged material
Description: Ability to control inventory of uncataloged material, such as paperback books and children's board books. Support for quick distribution; minimal branch labor; and ability to identify how the material is being used. Ability to count transactions and include in circulation statistics
and reports.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-018 Priority: 1
Name: item transfer utility
Description: System provides a utility for transferring batches of items between branches, used for example to move books into a mobile library, an outreach program collection, or a "just-in-time" warehouse. Utility includes ability to query for candidate materials; ability to save queries for repeated use; ability to manually select titles from query results; and ability to change records of all or selected items to move to new location. Mechanisms for moving items include changing location field, generating pull lists, etc. In addition, utility provides means to revert items to original location after a set period of time, and/or based on other criteria.
Source: RWG
Req ID: PINES-019 Priority: 1
Name: missing and damaged items report
Description: The system provides reports of missing and damaged items per branch.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-020 Priority: 1
Name: in-transit items report
Description: The system generates a list of items that have been in-transit for more than X days (X configurable), per branch and per system.  The report would merge the transit to and transit from into one report for ease of front-line staff use.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-021 Priority: 1
Name: item record purging
Description: The system provides a utility and reports for identifying item records to purge, based on customizable criteria such as: an item has been in status "missing" for more than X months; an item has status "discard/weed". The system has a report to assist in the conversion of items from one status to another. The system provides a last copy report that would single out a library system's last copies, to assist catalogers who need to edit WorldCat entries. The system provides a quick effective method
of deleting volume entries along with copy entries, as well as records with no items attached.

Req ID: PINES-022 Priority: 1
Name: deletions
Description: Ability to count and track record deletions (e.g. item records, patron records) per location and per system.
Source: RWG

Category: Management Tools: Patron Records
Req ID: PINES-023 Priority: 1
Name: patron characteristics
Description: Queries and reports can be limited or grouped by various patron characteristics, including: age range, zip code, county of residence, home branch, patron type, and preferred language.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-024 Priority: 1
Name: inactive patrons report
Description: The system generates a list of patrons with no circulation or electronic activity in the last X days (X configurable).  List should be configurable to System, Home Library, County, etc.
Source: RWG

Category: Management Tools: Transaction Records
Req ID: PINES-025 Priority: 1
Name: transaction history
Description: Transaction history is maintained for X days (X is configurable);
monthly and annual aggregate information is maintained indefinitely.
Related Reqs: Related Process
Source: RWG
Req ID: PINES-026 Priority: 1
Name: examples of useful backroom statistics
Description: Transactions can be grouped by hour, terminal, branch, and system. Transactions include check-ins, check-outs, fines collected, patron registrations, etc., and can be queried by all transactions or by type of transaction.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-027 Priority: 1
Name: types of check-in
Description: The system counts all types of check-in individually and cumulatively: book-drop, by terminal, by user or self-service.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-028 Priority: 1
Name: types of check-out
Description: The system counts all types of check-out individually and cumulatively: staff check-out, self check-out, staff renewal, self checkout renewal, online renewal, OPAC renewal.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-029 Priority: 1
Name: holds and locations
Description: The system counts all hold requests, including how the hold was placed: at a staff desk, at a public computer inside the library, or remotely.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-030 Priority: 1
Name: transactions report
Description: The system can generate a report of transactions (holds placed, holds filled, and check-outs) per patron, per library, per selected group o libraries, per system, per county. The system displays the number of check-outs and placed holds per patron. Holds are subtotaled by type, e.g. active, frozen, and frozen-until holds.
Source: RWG

Category: Management Tools: Financial Records

Req ID: PINES-031 Priority: 1
Name: value of items report
Description: The system can generate a report of the value of items (based on data in item record) in the entire collection or a portion. Example: staff can obtain value of all items with status of longoverdue, or value of all dvds in children's collection, or value of entire collection.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-032 Priority: 1
Name: standard accounting practice and auditing requirements
Description: All reports and data archiving must comply with standard accounting practice and state, county, and municipal auditing requirements.
Source: RWG
Req ID: PINES-033 Priority: 1
Name: financial data (patrons)
Description: Fines, charges, waivers, and ecommerce transactions are attached to patron and item records. System tracks fines waived and payments made per library. Financial information can be updated easily. As an example, a staff user can easily query patron accounts with balances
greater than X dollars.
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-034 Priority: 1
Name: financial reports
Description: The system provides financial reports including: patron account balances by patron, home library, and system; fines and charges accrued per time period (e.g. last twelve months, YTD, last
month) and per type of charge (overdue fines, damaged item charges, lost item charges, etc.); fines waived per time period and per branch; payments made per time period and per payment method (e.g. staff desk, self-check station, OPAC).
Source: RWG

Req ID: PINES-035 Priority: 1
Name: financial audit trail
Description: The system maintains a ledger of patron payments, including which charges payments are applied to, to facilitate reconciliation.
Source: RWG