Software Requirement Specification For Online National Election Voting

Group: iTeam4
•    Emilbek Joldoshev       1592476
•    Hassan Salahe Matar  1591114
•    Mehmet Barış Özkan  1560747
•    Hüseyin Lutin                1560408

5/12/2010

1.     INTRODUCTION                                                                                 
                                                              5
1.1.        Problem Definition                                                                      
                                                                                                 5
1.2.        Purpose                                                                                 
                                                                                                    
      5
1.3.        Scope                                                                                   
                                                                                                    
        5
1.4.        User and Literature Survey                                                              
                                                                                           5
1.5.        Definitions and Abbreviations                                                           
                                                                                        6
1.6.        References                                                                              
                                                                                                    
   6
1.7.        Overview                                                                                
                                                                                                    
    7
2.     OVERALL DESCRIPTION                                                                          
                                                     8
2.1.        Product Perspective                                                                     
                                                                                                8
2.2.        Product Functions                                                                       
                                                                                                  9
2.2.1.         Normal Interactive Mode                                                              
                                                                                    9
2.2.1.1.      Voter Registration                                                                    
                                                                                      9
2.2.1.2.      Approve Applicant                                                                     
                                                                                    9
2.2.1.3.      Update Registered Voters                                                              
                                                                              9
2.2.1.4.      Open Candidate Account                                                                
                                                                           10
2.2.1.5.      Login/Logout                                                                          
                                                                                       10
2.2.1.6.      Account Update                                                                        
                                                                                   10
2.2.1.7.      View EC Information                                                                   
                                                                                11
2.2.1.8.      Ask To Candidate                                                                      
                                                                                   11
2.2.1.9.      CV Edit                                                                               
                                                                                             11
2.2.1.10.        Add / Edit Promises                                                                
                                                                                12
2.2.1.11.        Read/Answer Questions                                                              
                                                                          12
2.2.1.12.        View Election Results                                                              
                                                                               12
2.2.2.         Election Mode                                                                        
                                                                                           13
2.2.2.1.      Open System                                                                           
                                                                                      13
2.2.2.2.      Mark Generate Password                                                                
                                                                          13
2.2.2.3.      Online Vote                                                                           
                                                                                        13
2.2.2.4.      Enter Offline Votes                                                                   
                                                                                   13
2.3.        Constraints, Assumptions and Dependencies                                               
                                                                       14
3.     SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS                                                                        
                                                   15
3.1.        Interface Requirements                                                                  
                                                                                          15
3.1.1.         User Interfaces                                                                      
                                                                                            15

3.1.2.         Hardware Interfaces                                                                  
                                                                                      15
3.1.3.         Software Interfaces                                                                  
                                                                                        16
3.2.        Functional Requirements                                                                 
                                                                                         16
3.2.1.         Normal Interactive Mode                                                              
                                                                                  16
3.2.1.1.      Voter Registration                                                                    
                                                                                   17
3.2.1.2.      Approve Application                                                                   
                                                                                19
3.2.1.3.      Update Registered Voters                                                              
                                                                            21
3.2.1.4.      Open Candidate Account                                                                
                                                                           23
3.2.1.5.      Log In / Log out                                                                      
                                                                                       25
3.2.1.6.      Update Account                                                                        
                                                                                   27
3.2.1.7.      View Election Candidate Information                                                   
                                                                  29
3.2.1.8.      Ask Question to A Candidate                                                           
                                                                         31
3.2.1.9.      CV Edit (Candidate)                                                                   
                                                                                  32
3.2.1.10.        Add /Edit Promises                                                                 
                                                                                34
3.2.1.11.        Read / Answer Questions                                                            
                                                                          36
3.2.1.12.        View Election Results                                                              
                                                                               38
3.2.2.         Election Mode                                                                        
                                                                                           39
3.2.2.1.      Open System                                                                           
                                                                                      39
3.2.2.2.      Mark Voted and Generate Password                                                      
                                                                41
3.2.2.3.      Vote Online                                                                           
                                                                                        43
3.2.2.4.      Enter Offline Votes                                                                   
                                                                                   45
3.3.        Non-functional Requirements                                                             
                                                                                    47
3.3.1.         Performance Requirements                                                             
                                                                              47
3.3.2.         Security Requirements                                                                
                                                                                    47
3.3.3.         Safety Requirements                                                                  
                                                                                      47
3.3.4.         Reliability                                                                          
                                                                                                  
48
3.3.5.         Other                                                                                
                                                                                                   
48
4.     DATA MODEL AND DESCRIPTION                                                                   
                                      49
4.1.        Data Description                                                                        
                                                                                                 49
4.1.1.         Data Objects                                                                         
                                                                                             49
4.1.2.         Relationships                                                                        
                                                                                             49
4.1.3.         Complete Data Model                                                                  
                                                                                    50
4.1.4.         Data Dictionary                                                                      
                                                                                           51
5.     BEHAVIORAL MODEL AND DESCRIPTION                                                             
                            52
5.1.        Description of Software Behavior                                                        
                                                                                   52
5.2.        State Transition Diagrams                                                               
                                                                                         53
6.     PLANNING                                                                                     
                                                                  54

6.1.        Team Structure                                                                          
                                                                                                 54
6.2.        Estimation                                                                              
                                                                                                    
  54
6.3.        Process Model                                                                           
                                                                                                  
54
7.     CONCLUSION                                                                                   
                                                               55


1.   Introduction
This document describes the structural properties and software requirements of the Online National 
Election Voting System project.

1.1. Problem Definition
Manual voting system has been deployed for many years in our country. However  in many parts  of  
our  country  people  cannot  attend  the  voting  because  of  several  reasons.  To illustrate, 
sometimes people may not be in their own registration region and due to this fact they  cannot  
fulfill  their  voting  duties.  In  order  to  solve  these  problems  there  is  a  need  of 
online  election  voting  system  in  addition  to  manual  voting  system.  After  registering  to 
system, the voters will use their votes  at any field areas by using the  system if they prefer 
online voting [1].

1.2. Purpose
The purpose of this document is to make the functional and non-functional requirements of the 
Online National Election Voting System easy to comprehend. It also serves the purpose of making the 
functionality clear to end users.

1.3. Scope
This SRS document applies to the initial version (release 1.0) of the “Online National Election 
System”  software  package.  This  document  describes  the  modeling  and  the  requirement 
analysis of the system. The main aim of the system is to provide a set of protocols that allow 
voters to cast ballots while a group of authorities collect votes and output final results.

1.4. User and Literature Survey
Online Voting has being used in lots of countries with the development of the
E-government  technologies  in  the  past  years.  Generally  in  these  countries  the  electronic 
voting  is  supervised  by  the  presence  of  the  independent  electoral  authorities.  The  
specific electronic voting machines are used at polling stations for the voting operation [2].

The main users of the  Online  National Election System are the Voters, Election Candidates, 
Election   Commission   Authority   and   Election   Station   Supervisors.   Their   properties   
are described thorough the document.

1.5. Definitions and Abbreviations
The  following  is  a  list  of  terms,  acronyms  and  abbreviations  used  by  the  Online  
National Election Voting System software package and related documentation.

ABREVETIONS                                                DEFINITIONS
ONEV                                                               Online National Election Voting
EC                                                                     Election Candidate

ECA                                                                  Election Commission Authority

ESS                                                                   Election Station Supervisor
VIN                                                                   Voter Identity Number

DB                                                                    Database
TCK                                                                   Tc Kimlik No
VIC                                                                   Voter Identity Card
YSK                                                                   Yüksek Seçim Kurulu

For the simplicity of documentation throughout  the paper we have used masculinity for all genders.

1.6. References

[1] J. Mohen, and J. Glidden, “The Case for Internet Voting,” CACM, Vol. 44, No. 1, pp. 72- 85, 
Jan.2001.

[2] Chevallier, M.: Internet voting: Status; perspectives and Issues, ITU E-Government Workshop 
Geneva, 6 June 2003

[3] D. P. Gilliam, T. L. Wolfe, J. S. Sherif, and M. Bishop, “Software Security Checklist for the 
Software Life Cycle,” in Proc. WETICE’03, 2003, pp. 243-248.

[4] A. D. Rubin, “Security Considerations for Remote Electronic Voting,” CACM, vol. 45, pp. 39-44, 
Dec. 2002.

IEEE Std 830-1998: IEEE Recommended Practice for Software Requirements Specification

J. Peters, and W. Pedrycz, Software Engineering – An Engineering Approach. New York, NY: Wiley, 
2000.

1.7. Overview
The remainder of this document identifies the actors, use-cases, use-case scenarios, activity 
diagrams, assumptions and dependencies needed for the  analysis and design of the  Online National  
Election  Voting  software  package.  The  rest  of  the  document  contains  the  overall 
description of the system, requirements, data model and behavioral description of the  system and 
project planning.


2.   Overall Description
The   ONEV   is   a   web-based   system   so   fundamental   features   related   with   web-based 
technologies   such   as   client-server   and   database   properties   determine   the   software 
requirements of that project.

2.1. Product Perspective
The software product is a standalone system and not a part of a larger system. The system will  be  
made  up  of two  parts.  Before  the  election day  the  system  will  be  used for  general 
purposes such as viewing candidates’ profiles and past years’ election results. The voters will 
reach  the  system  through  web  pages  by  using  web-browsers  such  as  Mozilla,  Internet 
Explorer and Google Chrome.

On  the  election  day  another  independent  system  will  be  used  for  voting  operations.  
This system will be adapted to the computers at the polling stations. The voters cast their votes 
using  the  interface  that  are  provided  at  these  machines.  These  votes  are  accepted  by  
the system  on  the  server.  The  ECA  configures  the  whole  system  according  to  its  needs  
on  the server where the system is running.

Figure 1: Block diagram showing interaction between users and the system

2.2. Product Functions
The system can function in two modes, namely, Normal Interactive Mode and Election Mode. The system 
will be in Election Mode, for the purpose of vote polling only on the Election Day. Normal  
Interactive  Mode  is  for  accepting  registrations,  discussions  between  voters  and 
candidates, campaigns and the system is available in this mode all  the time except Election Days.

2.2.1.   Normal Interactive Mode
2.2.1.1.             Voter Registration
That system will be used only  by the people who have been registered to the system. Main actor of 
the  registration operator is the voter.  The registration operator is approved by the ECAs.

2.2.1.2.             Approve Applicant
By  using  this  function, ECA  approves  the  application  sent  by  the  voters  in  order to  
use  the ONEV. The main actor is the ECA.

2.2.1.3.             Update Registered Voters
ECA  deletes  voters  from  the  system  who  cannot  use  their  vote  officially.  ECA  also  
updates voter’s information. The main actor is the ECA.

2.2.1.4.             Open Candidate Account
The EC’s profile must be created by the ECA. This functionality helps to perform this action. The 
ECA is the main actor of this functionality.

2.2.1.5.             Login/Logout
All of the system users login to system by their user ids and passwords. All of the users are the 
main actor of this use case.

2.2.1.6.              Account Update
By using this function the EC may change his password that enters the system. The main actor of 
this use case is the EC.

2.2.1.7.             View EC Information
This function allows the voters to reach information about the EC such as their CVs, promises etc. 
Main actor is the voter for this use case.

2.2.1.8.             Ask To Candidate
By  using  this  functionality  the  voters  can  direct  questions  to  the  ECs  about  their  
election campaigns. The main actor for this use case is voter.

2.2.1.9.             CV Edit
This function provides the EC to edit his CV information on his own profile. The EC is the main 
actor of that functionality.

2.2.1.10.           Add / Edit Promises
By using that function the EC’s may add or edit  promises to their own profile. The main actor of 
this use case is the EC.

2.2.1.11.           Read/Answer Questions
This function provides ECs to read or answer questions about their election campaigns. The main 
actor is the EC.

2.2.1.12.           View Election Results
This functionality provides voters to see the current or past years’ election result in a proper 
way. The main actor is the voter.

2.2.2.   Election Mode
2.2.2.1.             Open System
This function provides ESS to start the system during the  Election Day or before.  The  ESS is the 
main actor of this operation.

2.2.2.2.             Mark Generate Password
Bu using that function the ESS will generate a password which will be used at voting operation by 
the voters. Main actor of this operation is the ESS.

2.2.2.3.             Online Vote
This is the main function of the system that provides online voting for the general public. The 
main actor is the voter and votes are collected in the DB.

2.2.2.4.             Enter Offline Votes
By using this function the ESSs enters the offline votes to the system. The main actor of this use 
case is the ESS.

2.3. Constraints, Assumptions and Dependencies
The  system  enables  voters  to  poll  their  vote  from  any  election  centers  that  the  
system  is installed in. In Turkey, the voting operation is executed nearly in 150,000 ballot 
boxes. This means that the system will work on these boxes at the same time.
Security and safety are the most crucial fundamentals of  the ONEV system. The system has 
zero-tolerance  with  regard  compromising.  The  system  should  not  allow  ESS  to  download 
votes to infer how voters in their regions have voted. The system should provide means for 
protecting and securing recounts of ballots cast in election.
For  the  proper  working  of  the  system  we  can  list  our  assumptions  and  dependencies  as 
follows.
•    Working internet connection
•    A   web   server   should   have   Java   installed   on   the   machine,   along   with   
Java’s cryptographic packages.
•    The election server runs on a http server, that is ”jsp” enabled.
•    A  web  browser  through  which  the  voters  access  the  server  should  have  minimal 
support for cookies and encrypted transactions.


3.   Specific Requirements

3.1. Interface Requirements

Figure 2: Showing interface relations

3.1.1.   User Interfaces
The system must provide a user interface for all types of users (ECA, ESS, EC, and Voter) that is 
available through all Web browsers. The user interface for voter must be different for Election 
Mode and Normal Interactive Mode.

3.1.2.   Hardware Interfaces
There are no hardware interfaces to this software system. The only interfaces are through  a 
computer system.

3.1.3.   Software Interfaces
The poll server runs on http server that is enabled to handle server pages. It uses a relational 
database to keep track of the polls, which it connects through standard database connectivity 
interfaces. In order to run the setup software, the environment needs to have a Java Virtual 
Machine running on it.

3.2. Functional Requirements

3.2.1.   Normal Interactive Mode
This  is  a  normal mode  –before  and after  Election Day  - a  user interacts  with the  system.  
It involves registration for voting, updating profile, viewing election candidates (EC) as well as 
sending  them  questions.  It  also  includes  functions  for  the  Election  Commission  Authority 
(ECA)  to  register  EC  and  approve  registered  voters.  The  following  use-cases  describe  
the functional requirements.

3.2.1.1.             Voter Registration

Use case name: VoterRegistration
ID: 1
Priority: High

Primary actor: Voter
Stakeholders and interests:
Voter – wants to register to system.
Use case type: Detail, essential

Brief description: In order to use the system the voters must register to system. This explains the 
registration process.
Precondition: None
Trigger: None Relationships: Association:
Include:
Extend:

Normal flow of events:
1.   Voter enters the system homepage.
2.   He clicks the “register now” button.
3.   The system prompts the application form.
4.   He fills in the necessary information related with him in the application form.
5.   He uploads a picture for Voter Identity Card (VID).
6.   He sends the request for registration by using “send” button.
a.   If the information is correctly entered the system prints a successful message.
b.   Otherwise, it prints appropriate error message, redisplays the application form.

Figure 3: Activity Diagram for Voter Registration

3.2.1.2.             Approve Application

Use case name: ApproveApplicant
ID: 2
Priority: High

Primary actor: ECA Stakeholders and Interests :
Voters - Wants ECA to approve their application Form
Use case type: Detail, essential
ECA - Wants to approve the Voters by checking Applicaitons Form

Brief  description:  This  describe  how  ECA  will  approve  the  application  form  of  voter  
and generate the new account to that voter
Precondition: The voter should have filled his application form
Trigger: Relationships: Association:
Include:
Extend:

Normal flow of events:
1.   ECA selects the online voter application form from list
2.   ECA checks the information of the applicant
a.   If the the given information is correct
i.   ECA approves the form by pressing “Approve” buton
ii.   ECA generates the new online account to this new voter
iii.   ECA prepares the VIC and generates password
iv.   ECA sends VIC and password to adress of voter
b.   if the given information is not correct
i.   ECA will inform voter about misinformation via postal mail

Figure 4: Activity Diagram for Approve Application function

3.2.1.3.             Update Registered Voters

Use case name: UpdateVoters
ID: 3
Priority: High

Primary actor: ECA Stakeholders and Interests :
ECA : Wants to update all voters according to their state
Use case type: Detail, essential


Brief description: This describe how ECA updates online voters

Precondition: Trigger: Relationships:
Association:
Include: Extend:

Normal flow of events:
1.   ECA selects on “Update Voters” from menu and displays that page
2.   ECA click on “Update Now” button
3.   The system checks online voters with respect to upcoming election’s voters list
a.   If the voter exists in the list, the system updates the voter with respect to official the 
voter information.
b.   If  the  voter  does  not  exist  in  the  list,  the  system  deletes  that  voter  from 
database.

Figure 5: Activity Diagram for Update Registered Voters

3.2.1.4.             Open Candidate Account

Use case name: OpenCandidateAccount
ID: 4
Priority: High

Primary actor: ECA Stakeholders and Interests :
EC, ECA -  ECA generates new accounts to EC’s
Use case type: Detail, essential


Brief description: This describes how ECA will generate all election candidates’ new accounts.

Precondition: Trigger: Relationships:
Association:
Include:
Extend:

Normal flow of events:
1.   ECA selects on “Create Candidate Accounts” from menu
2.   System  displays Create Candidate Accounts page
3.   ECA opens a new form for every official Candidate
4.   ECA fills the form according to candidate’s information
5.   ECA presses on “Generate password” button
6.   System creates an account and password for that candidate
7.   ECA presses on “Print” button and the system prints that document
8.   ECA finishes the task by pressing on “Finish” button
9.   ECA sends candidate’s user information via postal mail.

Figure 6: Activity Diagram for Opening Voter Account function

3.2.1.5.             Log In / Log out

Use case name: Login/Logout
ID: 5
Priority: High

Primary actor: User
Stakeholders and interests:
Voter – Wants to log into the system ECA – Wants to log into the system ECC – Wants to log into the 
system
Use case type: Detail, essential
Brief description: This describes how the users log into the system

Precondition: The user opens the login page Trigger: The user enters his id and password 
Relationships:
Association:
Include:
Extend:

Normal flow of events:
1.       The user enters his login id and password
A.   If the login and password is valid, a session is opened
i.       The security is verified
ii.       The specific page of every user is loaded
B.   If the login or password is not valid, the login screen is redisplayed with an error message
2.       The user click on the logout button
i.       The session is terminated.
ii.       The login screen is displayed.

Figure 7: Activity Diagram for Log in / Log out function

3.2.1.6.             Update Account

Use case name: AccountUpdate
ID: 6
Priority: Medium

Primary actor: User Stakeholders and Interests:
Election Candidates – Wants to change password Voter - Wants to change password
Use case type: Detail, essential

Brief description: This explains how the candidate can change his password.

Precondition: The user should be logged in into the system
Trigger: The user clicks the “Update Account” button.
Relationships:
Association:
Include:
Extend:

Normal flow of events:

1.   In the user profile there is a button labeled “Update Account” he clicks it to update his 
account.
-     The system opens a new page to enter old password and the new one.
2.   The user enters his old password. He then enters his new password
3.   User clicks the “submit” button.
-     If the old password was entered incorrectly, the system will print an error message and the 
form to change password will re-appear.
-     If the old password was entered correctly the system changes password and prints a success 
message and redirects to his profile.

Figure 8: Activity Diagram for Updating Account function

3.2.1.7.             View Election Candidate Information

Use case name: ViewECInformation
ID: 7
Priority: Medium

Primary actor: Voter
Stakeholders and interests:
Use case type: Detail, essential
Voter – wants to see the candidates’ profiles in his own election region.

Brief description: By using this function the voters can reach information about the candidates’ 
CVs, promises and answers to asked questions.
Precondition:  -The voter should be already registered to the system
-The voter should have logged in to the system
-Account of the EC should be activated by himself.
Trigger: Relationships: Association: Include: Extend:

Normal flow of events:
1.   Voter selects the candidate from candidate list by mouse clicking.
A.   If the  candidate  has  not  activated his  profile  then there  will  not  be  any  link  to 
his profile
B.   If the candidate’s page is activated then voter clicks on the candidate’s profile link and 
EC’s profile page is displayed
i.           By clicking the “CV”  link voter can reach the general information about the EC.
ii.          By clicking the “promises” link voter can view the EC’s election campaign.
iii.         By  clicking  the  “Questions/Answers”  link  voter  can view  questions/answers and send questions.

Figure 9: Activity Diagram for Viewing Election Candidate Information

3.2.1.8.             Ask Question to A Candidate

Use case name: AskToCandidate
ID: 8
Priority: Medium

Primary actor: Voter
Stakeholders and interests:
Use case type: Detail, essential
Voter – wants to direct questions to candidates about their election campaign.

Brief  description:  This  explains  how  the  voters  use  the  system  for  asking  questions  to 
candidates.
Precondition:
Trigger:
Relationships:
Association:
Include:
Extend: ViewECInformation
Normal flow of events:
1.   User clicks on the “Questions/Answers” link
2.   He writes his question on the text field
3.   By pressing “Send Question”, user sends his question

Figure 10: Activity Diagram for Asking Question to a Candidate

3.2.1.9.             CV Edit (Candidate)

Use case name: CVEdit
ID: 9
Priority: Medium

Primary actor: Candidate Stakeholders and Interests:
Use case type: Detail, essential

Election Candidates – Wants to Add or Edit his CV contents.

Brief description: This explains how the candidate can Add contents to or edit his CV. The CV can 
be seen by voters.
Precondition: The user should be logged in into the system Trigger: The user clicks the View And 
Edit CV button or link. Relationships:
Association:
Include:
Extend:

Normal flow of events:
1.    In the user profile there is a button labeled “View And Edit CV” he clicks it to edit his CV.
-     The system opens a new page that contains the candidate’s CV with data in it if any in edit mode.
2.   The user edits his CV using the free editing template.
3.   The user clicks “Save And Return” button to save the changes and return to his profile.

Figure 11: Activity Diagram for CV Editing

3.2.1.10.           Add /Edit Promises

Use case name: Add/Edit Promises Primary actor: Candidate Stakeholders and Interests:
ID: 10
Use case type:
Priority: Medium

Election Candidates – Wants to Add or Edit his promises, that is, what he promises to do to his 
people he will lead if they select him.

Brief description: This explains how the candidate can Add or edit his promises.
Precondition: The user should be logged in into the system

Trigger: The user clicks the Add or edit promises button or link.
Relationships:
Association:
Include:
Extend:

Normal flow of events:
1.    In the user profile there is a button labeled “Add Or Edit Promises” he clicks it to add or edit his promises.
-     The system opens a new page that contains the candidate’s promises with data in it if any in edit mode.
2.   The user adds or edits his promises using the free editing template.
3.   The user clicks “Save And Return” button to save the changes and return to his profile.

Figure 12: Activity Diagram for Adding /Editing Promises

3.2.1.11.           Read / Answer Questions

Use case name: Read/Answer Questions
Primary actor: Candidate Stakeholders and Interests:
ID: 11
Use case type:
Priority: Medium

Election  Candidates  –  Wants  to  Read  and/or  answer  questions  from  the  voters  before  the 
election.

Brief  description:  This  explains  how  the  candidate  can  read  and/or  write  answers  to  
the questions asked by the voter-to-be.
Precondition: The user should be logged in into the system

Trigger: The user clicks the Read and/or Answer questions button or link.
Relationships:
Association:
Include:
Extend:

Normal flow of events:

1.    In  the  user  profile  there  is  a  button  labeled  “Questions”  he  clicks  it  to  read  and/or answer the questions.
-     The system opens a new page that contains the questions from the voters
-     If there are questions the candidate clicks on the question to read and answer it on the provided answer text box.
-     User can choose to return to his profile.
2.   The user reads and/or answers questions if any.
3.   The user clicks ”Reply and send” to save and send anwers of the questions.
4.    The system takes the user to the questions page
5.   User clicks on “Return” button to return to his profile

Figure 13: Activity Diagram for Reading / Answering Questions

3.2.1.12.           View Election Results

Use case name: ViewElectionResults
ID: 12
Priority: Medium

Primary actor: Voter
Stakeholders and interests:
Use case type: Detail, essential
General public (Voters, ECs, ESS, etc.) – wants to see the election results.

Brief  description:  This  describes  the  process  of  how  the  voters  view  the  election  
results  by using the system.
Precondition: Trigger:
Relationships:
Association:
Include:
Extend:

Normal flow of events:
1.   He clicks on the election results link.
2.   He chooses Election/Region/Political Party and presses click on button “show results”
3.   The system displays the required information according to the selected choices.

Figure 14: Activity Diagram for Viewing Election Results

3.2.2.   Election Mode

3.2.2.1.             Open System

Use case name: OpenSystem
ID: 13
Priority: High

Primary actor: User
Stakeholders and interests:
Use case type: Detail, essential
Election Station Supervisor – Wants to initiate the system

Brief description: This use case describes how the supervisor starts the system/systems of the 
station of his responsibility
Precondition: The user turns on the system/systems
Trigger: The user enters his/her TCK, supervisorID and password
Relationships:
Association:
Include:
Extend:

Normal flow of events:
The user enters his/her TCK, supervisorID and password
A.   If the TCK, supervisorID and password is valid, a session is opened
I.       The security is verified
II.       The voting page is loaded
B.   If  the  TCK,  supervisorID  and   password  is   not   valid,  the   login   screen  is 
redisplayed with an error message

Figure 15: Activity Diagram for Opening System

3.2.2.2.             Mark Voted and Generate Password

Use case name: MarkGeneratePassword
ID: 14
Priority: High

Primary actor: User
Stakeholders and interests:
Use case type: Detail, essential
Election  Station  Supervisor  –  Wants  to  generate  a  password  for  a  voter  and  check  and  
mark him/her as “Has Voted”

Brief description: This describes how ESS checks voter’s voting condition and mark him/her as “Has 
Voted” and if voter wants to use the online system generate a password for the voter to be used in 
voting.
Precondition: The ESS opened the system Trigger: The user enters voter’s TCK Relationships:
Association:
Include: Extend:

Normal flow of events:
1.       A screen displays asking for the user to enter voter’s TCK
2.       User Enters voter’s TCK
A.   If the voter with specified TCK has not voted yet
A.   The menu is appears with “online vote” and “offline vote” buttons
a.   If  user  presses  to  “online  vote”,  the  password  is  generated  and printed
b.    If  user  presses  to  “offline  vote”,  the  voter  marked  as  “  Offline Voted” by the 
system
B.   If the voter with specified TCK has voted or wrong TCK entered
I.        The login screen is redisplayed with appropriate error message

Figure 16: Activity Diagram for Mark as “Voted” and Generate Password

3.2.2.3.             Vote Online

Use case name: VoteOnline
ID: 15
Priority: High

Primary actor: Voter
Stakeholders and interests:
Voter – wants to use his vote by using system.
Use case type: Detail, essential

Brief description: This explains voting process by using the system.

Precondition: Trigger: Relationships:
Association:
Include:
Extend:

Normal flow of events:
1.   Voter gets a hash password from the ESS.
2.   Voter fills the Voter Identification Number (VIN), password and hash password areas.
3.   Voter press “log in” button.
A.   If  the  login  operation  is  not  verified  the  system  prompts  an  error  message  and 
returns to login page.
B.   If login operation is verified
i.           The system will prompt the list of parties/candidates.
ii.          Voter chooses one of the parties/candidates from list.
iii.         He presses the “vote” button for voting process.
iv.         If the operation is successful, voter marked as “ Online Voted” by the system
v.          System automatically returns to the log in page

Figure 17: Activity Diagram for Voting Online function

3.2.2.4.             Enter Offline Votes

Use case name: EnterOfflineVotes
ID: 16
Priority: High

Primary actor: Election Station Supervisor
Stakeholders and interests:
Use case type: Detail, essential
Election Station Supervisor – Wants to enter offline vote results to the system

Brief description: This describes how ESS enters offline vote results to the system immediately 
after the voting period.
Precondition: The ESS opened the system
Trigger: Relationships: Association:
Include:
Extend:

Normal flow of events:
1.       A screen displays asking for the user to enter supervisorID and password
2.       Supervisor enters supervisorID and password
A.   If the TCK, supervisorID and password is not valid, the login screen is redisplayed with an 
error message
B.   If the TCK, supervisorID and password are valid,
a.   The secuity is verified
b.   The  screen  displaying  every  Political  Party/  Candidate  and  their input fields is 
opened
c.    The ESS fills every PP / EC fields with the number of votes each PP
/ EC got and presses button “Enter Votes”
d.   The system compares the number of votes ESS entered with the number of votes marked as 
“Offline Voted” for that station.
i.   If  equality  holds  the  system  stores  given  values  to  the system and the main page is 
displayed.
ii.   If  equality  does  not  match,  the  screen  displaying  every Political    Party/    
Candidate    and    their    input    fields    is reopened with en error message.

Figure 18: Activity Diagram for Entering Offline Votes

3.3. Non-functional Requirements

3.3.1.   Performance Requirements
The system is expected to have reasonable short time response. The voter should be able to login 
and should be able to get response for his requests in 2-3 seconds.
The system’s performance is different according to its mode

•    In Election Mode: The system is expected to serve a maximum of up to 50000 voters instantly,  
each  voter  being  active  for  at  most  5  minutes  requesting  up  to  5  pages (Depending on 
number of candidates he may vote according to their types: Belediye Meclis  Üyesi,  Milletvekili,  
İl  Başkanı).  This  shows  that  the  system  should  be  able  to handle about 2000 transactions 
each second. In addition, the system must be working at 100% peak efficiency during the voting 
process.

•    In Normal Interactive Mode: The system in this mode is expected to serve maximum of up to 
50000 voters, but each voter can be active for a long time.

3.3.2.   Security Requirements
•    The   data   transaction   between   client   and   server   must   be   encrypted   using   
SSL technology.[3]
•    All the  passwords  that  are generated or accepted must  be  stored in database  in an 
encrypted form.
•    To  prevent  attacks  the  system  should  generate  random  word  and  ask  the  user  to 
enter it correctly for multiple tryings.
•    In  election  mode,  the  different  password  should  be  generated  for  a  TCK  in  every 
different election.

3.3.3.   Safety Requirements
•    To prevent data loss in case of system failure, the result of votes that are polled till then 
have to be saved in database.
•    In  case  ECA  detects  any  security  problem  in  the  system,  he  should  be  able  to  
shut down the  system  and prevent  all connection  to  the  server immediately  to preserve 
already polled votes.
•    The system should be able to recover itself from  previous crashes and continue the voting 
process.[4]
•    The system should warn ECA users about the malfunction of the system.

3.3.4.   Reliability
•    In election Mode: The system should be 99% reliable.
•    In Normal Interactive Mode: Since it may need some maintenance or preparation for the  
Election  Day,  the  system  does  not  need  to  be  reliable  every  time.  So,  80% reliability 
is enough.

3.3.5.   Other
•    JAVA EE is used for development of the system
•    Tools that are used for development and deployment of the system:
o ROSE / RSA / WebSphere Modeler for modeling and prototyping the system
o IDEs – Eclipse, RAD, Lotus Forms Designer, Portlet Factory
o Server applications:  WebSphere Portal, WAS, WAS CE, WPS
•    Linux is the system’s OS.


4.   Data Model and Description
4.1. Data Description
4.1.1.   Data Objects

We can classify our data objects and their main attributes as follows.
Login: UserId, Password.
UserList: Voters [], ECs[], ECAs[], ESSs[].
User: Name, Address, VotingCenterId, Age, Sex, TCK, userID, password
CandidateVotes: earntVotes, totalVotes, percentage, rank
Candidate: PoliticalParty, RullingArea, position
ESS: userId, password
Stations: stationId, ESS[]

4.1.2.   Relationships

A.   Associations
The following object relationships show association in ONEV system
•    Login and User
•    Login and ESS
•    Candidate and CandidateVotes
•    User and CandidateVotes
•    Stations and CandidateVotes

B.   Composition
The following object relationships show composition in ONEV system
•    User and UserList
•    ESS and Stations

4.1.3.   Complete Data Model
This diagram shows the data objects with relationships among each other.

Figure 19: Complete Data Model

4.1.4.   Data Dictionary
This table shows data dictionary of important fields.

Header                         Description                                                         
Field Type
Field Length/ Maximum Number

userID
This is a unique user identification word which is unique to every registered user
String (of                     20
characters)

password
A password for every user to log in into the system
String (of                     30
characters)

voters
An array of voters registered for the coming election
Numeric
70,000,000

electionCandidates
An array of election candidates registered for the coming election
Numeric
100,000

earnedVotes
Keeps the total votes a candidate has got from voters
Numeric
70,000,000

totalVotes
Keeps the total votes in a given region of a candidate given by voters
Numeric
70,000,000


5.   Behavioral Model and Description
The  system  acts  into  two  different  types  of  behavior  while  the  first  one  is  the  
behavior  in Election Day and the second behavior type is that how will system response in ordinary 
day. The  reason  why  we  divide  the  system  into  two  different  kinds  of  manner  is  
security, availability  and prohibition of  YSK.  Because  in the  Election Day  till the  end  of 
elections  any broadcast  cannot  publish or comment  on results.  For the  availability  of the  
system  only  on election  field  the  system  will  be  opened  to  the  election.  The  reason  
of  why  the  system available  in  election  field  is  security  because  if  the  system  is  
reachable  from  everywhere maybe system can be hacked or the server may not serve to everywhere.

5.1. Description of Software Behavior
•    Election Mode
The  system  will  be  available  only  in  the  election  field.  ECA  will  change  the  system 
mode to Election Day mode. The voter who already has a VIC can use this system in these centers 
with their VIN and password. System can be used only for aim of voting, voter cannot  see  any  
daily  activity  of  the  system  as  in ordinary  day.  After the  voter login to system, system 
will give hash code to voter will use this code to vote. Giving hash  code  is  valid  only  in  
the  Election  Day  mode.  System  will  show  only  political parties after login with hash code.

•    Normal Interactive Mode
The system is available to everywhere. The voter who has already VIC can use system. System in 
ordinary day behaviour has all functions which are expalined in the part of functional requirements 
except the voting function.

5.2. State Transition Diagrams

Figure 20: State Transition Diagram of Voter and ESS in Election Mode


6.   Planning

6.1. Team Structure
The team is composed of four senior students of Computer Engineering Department at Middle East 
Technical University.
•    Hassan Salahe Matar               e1591114@ceng.metu.edu.tr
•    Emilbek Joldoshev                    e1592476@ceng.metu.edu.tr
•    Hüseyin Lutin                             e1560408@ceng.metu.edu.tr
•    Mehmet Barış Özkan                е1560747@ceng.metu.edu.tr

6.2. Estimation

Work                                                               Time Schedule (Until)
Initial Design Report                                    December 14, 2010
Software Design Description                      January 4, 2010

Prototype                                                       January 23, 2011

Implementations                                          April 20, 2011
Testing                                                            May 10, 2011

6.3. Process Model
Since our requirements are defined properly and will not be object to big changes, we will use 
Waterfall process model throughout our system development.

Figure 21: Waterfall Model showing the step by step activities in our software development processes

7.   Conclusion
This SRS document is prepared for a better design of Online National Election Voting system. The  
functional  and  other  requirements  of  the  system  are  described  and  the  needs  of  the 
users are stated thought the document.