Enable law enforcement agencies to capture defendant and incident information along with supporting paper documents within 48 hours of arrest.  

Enable magistrates to electronically review request(s) for counsel and submit request(s) for counsel within 24 hours of the indigency hearing.

Detention Facility Officer captures Defendant, Incident, and Financial Information.
Defendant swears to and signs Financial Affidavit.
Detention Facility Officer witnesses and signs Financial Affidavit. 
Detention Facility Officer schedules Indigency Hearing. 
Magistrate informs Defendant of right to request appointment of counsel and asks whether Defendant wants a Court Appointed Attorney.
Defendant requests appointment of a Court Appointed Attorney.
Magistrate reviews Financial Affidavit.
Magistrate interviews/questions Defendant.
Magistrate makes determination that Defendant is indigent.
Defendant and Magistrate sign Request for Appointed Counsel. 
Magistrate submits Request for Appointed Counsel to the Office of Attorney Appointments.

Defendant waives right to Court Appointed Attorney.
Defendant signs Waiver of Appointed Counsel.
Magistrate submits Waiver of Appointed Counsel to the Office of Attorney Appointment

Magistrate makes determination that Defendant is not indigent.
Magistrate submits notice of indigency determination to the Office of Attorney Appointments.  


Enable the Office of Attorney Appointments to review request(s) for counsel and process request(s) for counsel as soon as possible, but not later than the end of the first working day after the date on which the Office of Attorney Appointments receives the request for appointment of counsel.

Enable law enforcement agencies to be notified that the request for counsel has been denied within 24 hours of the denial.  

Enable the appointed attorney and Defendant to be notified that an appointment has been made within 24 hours of the appointment.

Office of Attorney Appointments receives/reviews the Request for Appointed Counsel.
Office of Attorney Appointments researches Defendant/Incident information in Court Case Management System. 
Office of Attorney Appointments confirms Defendant has not been released from custody.
Office of Attorney Appointments confirms Defendant does not have a Defense Attorney appointed on a pending case.
Office of Attorney Appointments determines the appropriate appointment rotation list based upon the highest level and degree of offense Defendant is accused of committing. 
Office of Attorney Appointments selects next Defense Attorney in the appointment rotation list.
Office of Attorney Appointments notifies Defendant, Defense Attorney and Detention Facility Officer of appointment by facsimile and/or electronic mail.

Office of Attorney Appointments records that the Request for Appointed Counsel has been denied because the Defendant is no longer in custody.
Office of Attorney Appointments determines that the previously appointed Defense Attorney is on the appropriate appointment rotation list required by the Request for Appointed Counsel being reviewed.  
Office of Attorney Appointments selects previously appointed Defense Attorney for appointment.

Office of Attorney Appointments determines that the previously appointed Defense Attorney is not on the appropriate appointment rotation list required by the Request for Appointed Counsel being reviewed.  
Original Defense Attorney is notified of new charge(s) and is removed from the appointment due to a lack of qualifications.
New Defense Attorney is appointed to original charge(s).

Office of Attorney Appointments forwards the Request for Counsel to the presiding District Judge of Court in which the capital felony case is filed.
District Court Judge selects two attorneys both must be qualified by the Administrative Judicial Region Local Selection Committee.
Office of Attorney Appointments appoints selected Defense Attorney(s). 


Enable an appointed attorney to review appointments and capture the date and type of first contact with the defendant no later than the end of the first working day after the date of the appointment.

Enable an appointed attorney to capture the date and time of the first in person visit with the defendant, as appropriate.   

Enable the Office of Attorney Appointments to be notified when first contact by an appointed attorney is not made by the of the first working day after the date of the appointment.

Defense Attorney contacts Defendant within one working day of appointment.
Defense Attorney notifies Office of Attorney Appointments of date and time of initial contact.
Defense Attorney interviews Defendant in person.
Defense Attorney notifies Office of Attorney Appointments of date and time of in person visit(s). 
Until the charges have been dismissed, defendant is acquitted, appeals are exhausted, or the Court has relieved the Defense Attorney of duties.


Enable the appointed attorney and Office of Attorney Appointments to be notified that the District Attorney has accepted/rejected the incident and whether charges where added, removed or modified.

District Attorney notifies Office of Attorney Appointments of the charge(s) that were accepted for prosecution.
Office of Attorney Appointments enters Defense Attorney appointment into the Court Case Management System.
Office of Attorney Appointments notifies Defense Attorney that charge(s) have been filed.
Office of Attorney Appointments notifies Defense Attorney.



Enable the Office of Attorney Appointments to produce comprehensive reporting measurements that reflect compliance with the Texas Fair Defense Act.

Court Coordinator determines that a setting is required.
Court Coordinator enters setting information into Court Case Management System.
Office of Attorney Appointments notifies Defendant, Defense Attorney, and District Attorney of setting. 
Defendant, Defense Attorney, and District Attorney appear before Judge.
Court Coordinator enters setting result into Court Case Management System.


Enable the Office of Attorney Appointments to produce comprehensive reporting measurements that reflect compliance with the Texas Fair Defense Act.

Defense Attorney submits request for payment itemizing the list of services performed to Office of Attorney Appointments.
Office of Attorney Appointments forwards request for payment to Judge.
Judge reviews/approves request for payment and forwards to Office of Attorney Appointments.
Office of Attorney Appointments forwards order to remit payment to Auditor.
Auditor presents claim to Commissioners Court. 
Commissioners Court approves payment of claim.
Auditor remits payment to Defense Attorney.
Auditor notifies Judge that payment has been remitted. 

Judge makes written finding of approved payment amount and reason(s) for approving an amount different from the requested amount.

Judge makes written finding of approved payment amount and reason(s) for approving an amount different from the requested amount.
Defense Attorney files motion with Presiding Administrative Judge.
Presiding Administrative Judge reviews disapproval of payment.
Presiding Administrative Judge determines the appropriate amount of payment.
Presiding Administrative Judge orders Auditor to remit payment to Defense Attorney. 

Defense Attorney files request for advance payment of expenses.
Judge denies request (in whole or part) for advance payment of expenses.
Judge makes written finding of approved payment amount and reason(s) for approving an amount different from the requested amount.
Judge submits request for advance payment and denial as sealed exhibit to the record.

Office of Attorney Appointments notifies Defense Attorney.


Enable the Office of Attorney Appointments to produce comprehensive reporting measurements that reflect compliance with the Texas Fair Defense Act. 

Defense Attorney submits application for public appointments.
Office of Attorney Appointments reviews application.
Office of Attorney Appointments forwards application to Judges.
Judges review/approve application.
Judges forward application to Office of Attorney Appointments.
Office of Attorney Appointments adds Defense Attorney to appropriate appointment rotation list(s).
Office of Attorney Appointments notifies Defense Attorney.

Office of Attorney Appointments records qualification issues.
Office of Attorney Appointments notifies Defense Attorney.

Office of Attorney Appointments notifies Defense Attorney.

Judges order removal of Defense Attorney.
Office of Attorney Appointments removes Defense Attorney from appropriate appointment rotation list(s). 
Office of Attorney Appointments notifies Defense Attorney.

Defense Attorney requests to be removed from appointment rotation list(s).
Office of Attorney Appointments suspends appointments to Defense Attorney from appropriate appointment rotation list(s) for 30 days. 
Office of Attorney Appointments notifies Defense Attorney.


Enable the Office of Attorney Appointments to produce comprehensive reporting measurements that reflect compliance with the Texas Fair Defense Act.

Office of Attorney Appointments selects the report type.
Office of Attorney Appointments enters/selects report parameters.
Office of Attorney Appointments distributes report to Task Force on Indigent Defense.


Report Types: 
1.	Number of appointments made by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc) and type of appointment (felony, misdemeanor, etc…).  
2.	Number of denials of counsel by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc) and type of denial.
3.	Minimum, maximum, and average number of hours between date/time of arrest and magistration by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc).
4.	Minimum, maximum, and average number of hours between date/time of magistration and request for counsel by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc). 
5.	Minimum, maximum, and average number of hours between date/time of request for appointment of counsel and appointment/denial by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc). 
6.	Minimum, maximum, and average number of hours between date/time of appointment of counsel and Defense Attorney first contact by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc). 
7.	Minimum, maximum, and average number of days between date/time of appointment and case filing by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc).
8.	Minimum, maximum, and average number of days between date/time of case filing and disposition by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc).
9.	Minimum, maximum, and average number of days between date/time of appointment and disposition by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc).
10.	Minimum, maximum, and average number of total hours billed by Defense Attorney and Offense Type by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc).
11.	Minimum, maximum, and average number of court appearances by Defense Attorney and Offense Type by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc).
12.	Minimum, maximum, and average of total payments made to Defense Attorney by Offense Type by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc).
13.	Minimum, maximum, and average cost of reimbursement types (Court Appearances, Investigation, etc...) by Offense Type by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc).
14.	Minimum, maximum, and average number of appointments for Defendants with special needs by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc).
15.	Minimum, maximum, and average number of duplicate appointments and amount of payments made on those cases/charges (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc).
16.	Minimum, maximum, and average number of non-disposed cases/charges and amount of payments made on those cases/charges (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc).
17.	Minimum, maximum, and average number of pleas by Defense Attorney, Disposition Type, and Offense Type by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc).
18.	Minimum, maximum, and average number of trials by Defense Attorney, Disposition Type, and Offense Type by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc).
19.	Minimum, maximum, and average number of dispositions by Defense Attorney, Disposition Type, and Offense Type by date range (day, week, month, quarter, annual, and ad hoc).