A person can create bookings. Each booking belongs to a single person and have its own name and status. For a booking there can exist booking invoices with total amount to be paid. A booking is related to a car category that has name, car size (expressed by number), and car models. A car model belongs just to one car category. Then, car model has specified name, day price, and year of design. For a car brand, we keep just its name.

There can be multiple cars of each car model. A car has a color, license plate, year of production, and status. Booking can have several rentals, where each rental has a single car, price, rental type. From the price of rental, it is possible to compute average price for a car. Rental type has just name. Car pickup is related to rental with a specific date and parking lot, where the car is actually being picked up.  Similarly, car dropoff has a date, parking lot, and a flag if it is returned damaged. From dates of car pickup and car dropoff, we can compute if the rental is booked for today.

Parking lot has a lot number, square metres, and a fleet location. A fleet location has its name and capacity. Car belongs always to a fleet location, and fleet location is related to a certain location. Location has city, street, and number. City has name and zip code. City belongs to a country with name and abbreviation.

For a person, we keep name, title, and notes. A bank account is owned by a person. Each bank account has its account number, iban, bank account type, and bank. Bank has name and BIC. Bank account type has just name. Bank cards can be related to a bank account. Bank card has card number, bank card type, and expiration date. Again, bank card type has just name.

A person can be either a natural person or a legal person. Natural person has first name, last name, gender, birthdate, passport ID, and national register number. On the other hand, legal person has a VAT number, company number, and is related to a certain industry. Two people can be related using a connection. Connection has end date, start date, and connection type. Connection type has again only a name.

A fax, a phone, an email, and a social media account can be associated to a person. Fax has its fax number, type with name, and a flag if it is a preferred fax. Phone has its phone number, type with name, and a flag if it is a preferred phone. Social media account has its account name and type with name. Finally, email has its email address, type with name, and a flag if it is a preferred email. 
Person location keeps where a person is. It has its start date, end date, type with name. Person location is related to a location. 