Software Requirements Specification
Amazing Lunch Indicator

Sarah Geagea  881024-4940
Sheng Zhang 850820-4735
Niclas Sahlin 880314-5658
Faegheh Hasibi 870625-5166
Farhan Hameed 851007-9695
Elmira Rafiyan 840724-5383
Magnus Ekberg 851022-1933

Table of Contents
1. Introduction                                                                                     
                                                           1
1.1 Purpose                                                                                         
                                                        1
1.2 Scope                                                                                           
                                                         1
1.3 Definitions, acronyms, and abbreviations                                                        
                                    1
1.4 References                                                                                      
                                                      2
2. Overall description                                                                              
                                                       4
2.1 Product perspective                                                                             
                                                 4
2.2 Product functions                                                                               
                                                   4
2.3 User characteristics                                                                            
                                                   5
2.4 Constraints                                                                                     
                                                       5
2.5 Assumptions and dependencies                                                                    
                                        5
2.6 Apportioning of requirements                                                                    
                                          6
3. Specific requirements                                                                            
                                                     7
3.1.1 User interfaces                                                                               
                                                7
3.1.2 Hardware interfaces                                                                           
                                            8
3.1.3 Software interfaces                                                                           
                                             8
3.1.4 Communications interfaces                                                                     
                                      9
3.2 Functional requirements                                                                         
                                              9
3.2.1 User Class 1 - The User                                                                       
                                          9
3.2.2 User Class 2 - Restaurant Owner                                                               
                                 14
3.2.3 User Class 3 - Administrator                                                                  
                                     18
3.3 Performance requirements                                                                        
                                          21
3.4 Design constraints                                                                              
                                                23
3.5 Software system attributes                                                                      
                                            23
4. Prioritization and Release Plan                                                                  
                                               27
4.1 Choice of prioritization method                                                                 
                                        27
Appendix I: Selection for Cost-Value Approach                                                       
                                  29
Appendix II: Prioritization Result of 10 selected Requirements Using Cost-Value Approach            
       32
Appendix III: Five-Way Priority Scheme                                                              
                                      36
Appendix IV: Release Plan                                                                           
                                               47
Appendix V: I-star                                                                                  
                                                      55

1. Introduction

This section gives a scope description and overview of everything included in this SRS document. 
Also, the purpose for this document is described and a list of abbreviations and definitions is 
provided.
1.1 Purpose
The purpose of this document is to give a detailed description of the requirements for the “Amazing 
Lunch Indicator” (ALI) software. It will illustrate the purpose and complete declaration for the 
development of system. It will also explain system constraints, interface and interactions with 
other
external applications. This document is primarily intended to be proposed to a customer for its 
approval and a reference for developing the first version of the system for the development team.
1.2 Scope
The “Amazing Lunch Indicator” is a GPS-based mobile application which helps people to find the 
closest restaurants based on the user’s current position and other specification like price, 
restaurant type, dish and more. The application should be free to download from either a mobile 
phone application store or similar services.
Restaurant owners can provide their restaurant information using the web-portal. This information 
will act as the bases for the search results displayed to the user. An administrator also uses the 
web-portal in order to administer the system and keep the information accurate. The administrator 
can, for instance, verify restaurant owners and manage user information.
Furthermore, the software needs both Internet and GPS connection to fetch and display results. All 
system information is maintained in a database, which is located on a web-server. The software also 
interacts  with the GPS-Navigator software which is required to be an already installed application 
on the user’s mobile phone. By using the GPS-Navigator, users can view desired restaurants on a map 
and be navigated to them. The application also has the capability of representing both summary and 
detailed information about the restaurants.
1.3 Definitions, acronyms, and abbreviations




Term                                Definition
Table 1 - Definitions


User Admin/Administrator

Restaurant Owner Web-Portal
Someone who interacts with the mobile phone application
System administrator who is given specific permission for managing and controlling the system
Someone who has a restaurant and wants his restaurant to be a part the application
A web application which present special facilities for restaurant owner and admin



GPS
GPS-Navigator


Application Store


Stakeholder DESC RAT
DEP TAG GIST

SCALE METER MUST PLAN WISH DEFINED

Global Positioning System
An installed software on mobile phone which could provide GPS connection and data, show locations 
on map and find paths from current position to defined destination
An installed application on mobile phone which helps user to find new compatible applications with 
mobile phone platform and download them from Internet
Any person who has interaction with the system who is not a developer. Description
Rational Dependency
A unique, persistent identifier contained in a PLanguage statement [2]
A short, simple description of the concept contained in a PLanguage statement [2]
The scale of measure used by the requirement contained in a PLanguage statement [2]
The process or device used to establish location on a SCALE contained in a PLanguage statement [2]
The minimum level required to avoid failure contained in a PLanguage statement [2]

The level at which good success can be claimed contained in a PLanguage statement [2]

A desirable level of achievement that may not be attainable through available means contained in a 
PLanguage statement [2]

The official definition of a term contained in a PLanguage statement [2]

1.4 References
[1] IEEE Software Engineering Standards Committee, “IEEE Std 830-1998, IEEE Recommended Practice 
for Software Requirements Specifications”, October 20, 1998.
[2] Feldt R,”re_lecture5b_100914”, unpublished.
[3] Davis M A, “Just Enough Requirements Management: Where Software Development Meets Marketing”, 
New York, Dorset House Publishing, 2005.
[4] Karlsson J, “A Cost-Value Approach for Prioritizing Requirements”, Norges Teknisk- 
Naturvitenskapelige Uni. 1997

1.5 Overview
The remainder of this document includes three chapters and appendixes. The second one provides an 
overview of the system functionality and system interaction with other systems. This chapter also 
introduces different types of stakeholders and their interaction with the system. Further, the 
chapter also mentions the system constraints and assumptions about the product.
The third chapter provides the requirements specification in detailed terms and a description of 
the different system interfaces. Different specification techniques are used in order to specify 
the requirements more precisely for different audiences.
The fourth chapter deals with the prioritization of the requirements. It includes a motivation for 
the chosen prioritization methods and discusses why other alternatives were not chosen.
The Appendixes in the end of the document include the all results of the requirement prioritization 
and a release plan based on them.


2. Overall description
This section will give an overview of the whole system. The system will be explained in its context 
to show how the system interacts with other systems and introduce the basic functionality of it. It 
will also describe what type of stakeholders that will use the system and what functionality is 
available for each type. At last, the constraints and assumptions for the system will be presented.
2.1 Product perspective
This system will consist of two parts: one mobile application and one web portal. The mobile 
application will be used to find restaurants and view information about them while the web portal 
will be used for managing the information about the restaurants and the
system as a whole.

The mobile application will need to communicate to a GPS application within the mobile phone, which 
in turn communicates with a physical GPS device to find the location of the user, see Figure 1. The 
GPS will provide the mobile application with locations of both the user and the restaurants and the 
distance between them, but it will also provide maps and the functionality to display the
application’s data on the map. The functionality provided by the GPS will be embedded into the 
application in order for the user to be able to use the functions in the application in a 
seamlessly manner.


Since this is a data-centric product it will need somewhere to store the data. For that, a database 
will be used. Both the mobile application and web portal will communicate with the database, 
however in slightly different ways. The mobile application will only use the database to get data 
while the web portal will also add and modify data. All of the database communication will go over 
the Internet.
The mobile application has some restrictions about the








Figure 1 - Block diagram
resource allocation. To avoid problems with overloading the operating system the application is 
only allowed to use 20 megabytes of memory while running the application. The maximum amount of 
hard drive space is also 20 megabytes.
2.2 Product functions
With the mobile application, the users will be able to search for restaurants. The result will be 
based on the criteria the user inputs. There are several search criteria and it will be possible 
for the administrator of the system to manage the options for those criteria that have that.
The result of the search will be viewed either in a list view or in a map view, depending on what 
criteria included in the search. The list view will have one list item for each restaurant matching 
the search criteria and show a small part of the restaurant information so the user can identify 
the restaurant. The map view will show each restaurant location as a pin on the map as well as the user’s own location. 
In both views the users will be able to either select a restaurant as target destination or get 
information how to get there, or view the information of a specific restaurant.
The web portal will provide functionality to manage the system and the restaurant information. It 
will also provide information about the system, for example show when there is a new update.
2.3 User characteristics
There are three types of users that interact with the system: users of the mobile application, 
restaurant owners and administrators. Each of these three types of users has different use of the 
system so each of them has their own requirements.
The mobile application users can only use the application to find a restaurant. This means that the 
user have to be able to search for restaurants, choose a restaurant from that search and then 
navigate to it. In order for the users to get a relevant search result there are multiple criteria 
the users can specify and all results matches all of those.
The restaurant owners will not use the mobile application but the web portal instead. There they 
will manage the information about their restaurant, for example a description of the restaurant, 
contact information and their menu.
The administrators also only interact with the web portal. They are managing the overall system so 
there is no incorrect information within it. The administrator can manage the information for each 
restaurant as well as the options for both the mobile application users and the restaurant owners.
2.4 Constraints
The mobile application is constrained by the system interface to the GPS navigation system within 
the mobile phone. Since there are multiple system and multiple GPS manufacturers, the interface 
will most likely not be the same for every one of them. Also, there may be a difference between 
what navigation features each of them provide.
The Internet connection is also a constraint for the application. Since the application fetches 
data from the database over the Internet, it is crucial that there is an Internet connection for 
the application to function.
Both the web portal and the mobile application will be constrained by the capacity of the database. 
Since the database is shared between both application it may be forced to queue incoming requests 
and therefor increase the time it takes to fetch data.
2.5 Assumptions and dependencies
One assumption about the product is that it will always be used on mobile phones that have enough 
performance. If the phone does not have enough hardware resources available for the application, 
for example the users might have allocated them with other applications, there may be scenarios 
where the application does not work as intended or even at all.
Another assumption is that the GPS components in all phones work in the same way. If the phones 
have different interfaces to the GPS, the application need to be specifically adjusted to each 
interface and that would mean the integration with the GPS would have different requirements than what is stated in 
this specification.
2.6 Apportioning of requirements
In the case that the project is delayed, there are some requirements that could be transferred to 
the next version of the application. Those requirements are to be developed in the third release, 
see Appendix IV.


3. Specific requirements
This section contains all of the functional and quality requirements of the system. It gives a 
detailed description of the system and all its features.

3.1 External interface Requirements
This section provides a detailed description of all inputs into and outputs from the system. It 
also gives a description of the hardware, software and communication interfaces and provides basic 
prototypes of the user interface.
3.1.1 User interfaces
A first-time user of the mobile application should see the log-in page when he/she opens the 
application, see Figure 2. If the user has not registered, he/she should be able to do that on the 
log-in page.
If the user is not a first-time user, he/she should be able to see the search page directly when 
the application is opened, see Figure 3. Here the user chooses the type of search he/she wants to 
conduct.
Every user should have a profile page where they can edit their e-mail address, phone number and 
password, see Figure 4. Also, the user can set the mobile application to his/her preferred 
language. The “P” icon shows where the user can click to navigate to his/her profile page.













Figure 2 - Login page                                Figure 3 – Search page                         
            Figure 4 – Profile page
In Figure 5, the list view for the results is shown. When a user searches by price, this view 
should be the default one. The sorting header allows the user to sort the results according to 
price, restaurant name, distance, restaurant type and specific dish. Each result item includes 
information about the restaurants, a link to the restaurant’s web-page and an information link, 
which provides a more detailed description of the restaurant. There is also a filtering option, 
where the user can choose to filter the results by increasing or decreasing the price or distance 
range, see Figure 7.
In the map view each restaurant is represented by a pin, see Figure 6. Next to every pin there is 
an information link which provides a more detailed description of the restaurant, as mentioned for 
the list view. The same filtering option, as for the list view, is included in the map view.

The restaurant owners and administrators interact with the system through a web-portal, see Figure 
8. A restaurant owner should be able to register on the web-portal in order to log in and manage 
the restaurant information. An administrator should also be able to log in to the web-portal where 
he/she can administer the system by for instance editing restaurant or user information.

















Figure 5 – List view                                        Figure 6 – Map view                     
                    Figure 7 – Filter menu























3.1.2 Hardware interfaces

Figure 8 – Web Portal
Since neither the mobile application nor the web portal have any designated hardware, it does not 
have any direct hardware interfaces. The physical GPS is managed by the GPS application in the 
mobile phone and the hardware connection to the database server is managed by the underlying 
operating system on the mobile phone and the web server.
3.1.3 Software interfaces
The mobile application communicates with the GPS application in order to get geographical 
information about where the user is located and the visual representation of it, and with the database in order 
to get the information about the restaurants, see Figure 1. The communication between the database 
and the web portal consists of operation concerning both reading and modifying the data, while the 
communication between the database and the mobile application consists of only reading operations.
3.1.4 Communications interfaces
The communication between the different parts of the system is important since they depend on each 
other. However, in what way the communication is achieved is not important for the system and is 
therefore handled by the underlying operating systems for both the mobile application and the web 
portal.
3.2 Functional requirements
This section includes the requirements that specify all the fundamental actions of the software 
system.

3.2.1 User Class 1 - The User

3.2.1.1 Functional requirement 1.1

ID: FR1
TITLE: Download mobile application
DESC: A user should be able to download the mobile application through either an application store 
or similar service on the mobile phone. The application should be free to download.
RAT: In order for a user to download the mobile application. DEP: None
3.2.1.2 Functional requirement 1.2

ID: FR2
TITLE: Download and notify users of new releases
DESC: When a new/updated version or release of the software is released, the user should check for 
these manually. The download of the new release should be done through the mobile phone in the same 
way as downloading the mobile application.
RAT: In order for a user to download a new/updated release. DEP: FR1
3.2.1.3 Functional requirement 1.3

ID: FR3
TITLE: User registration - Mobile application
DESC: Given that a user has downloaded the mobile application, then the user should be able to 
register through the mobile application. The user must provide user-name, password and e-mail 
address. The user can choose to provide a regularly used phone number.
RAT: In order for a user to register on the mobile application. DEP: FR1

3.2.1.4 Functional requirement 1.4

ID: FR4
TITLE: User log-in - Mobile application
DESC: Given that a user has registered, then the user should be able to log in to the mobile 
application. The log-in information will be stored on the phone and in the future the user should 
be logged in automatically.
RAT: In order for a user to register on the mobile application. DEP: FR1, FR3
3.2.1.5 Functional requirement 1.5

ID: FR5
TITLE: Retrieve password
DESC: Given that a user has registered, then the user should be able to retrieve his/her password 
by e- mail.
RAT: In order for a user to retrieve his/her password. DEP: FR1
3.2.1.6 Functional requirement 1.6

ID: FR6
TITLE: Mobile application - Search
DESC: Given that a user is logged in to the mobile application, then the first page that is shown 
should be the search page. The user should be able to search for a restaurant, according to several 
search options.
The search options are Price, Destination, Restaurant type and Specific dish. There should also be 
a free- text search option. A user should be able to select multiple search options in one search.
RAT: In order for a user to search for a restaurant. DEP: FR4
3.2.1.7 Functional requirement 1.7

ID: FR7
TITLE: Mobile application - Search result in a map view DESC:
•     Search results can be viewed on a map. On the map, the relevant and closest restaurants 
according to the user’s position are shown.
•     A specific pin will represent a specific restaurant location. On each pin there should be an 
information link.
•     There should be maximally 100 results displayed. The map view should have a default zoom.
•     The map view should include a button that, when selected, should display different filtering 
options in a filtering menu.
RAT: The way results are displayed in a map. DEP: FR6

3.2.1.8 Functional requirement 1.8

ID: FR8
TITLE: Mobile application - Search result in a list view DESC:
•     Search results can be viewed in a list. Each element in the list represents a specific 
restaurant.
Each element should include the restaurant name, telephone number, type of food, distance according 
to the user’s position, average price, a short two-line description, a link to the
restaurant’s web-page and an information link.
•     There should be maximally 100 results displayed. If the result contains more restaurants than 
what can be displayed on the screen at one time, the user should be able to scroll through them.
•     When searching by price the restaurants should be sorted according to the following order:
1.    average price
2.    distance
3.    restaurant type
4.    specific dish
•     When searching by a search option, other than price, the restaurants should be sorted 
according to the following order:
1.    distance
2.    average price
3.    restaurant type
4.    specific dish
•     The list view should include a header with different selectable sorting options.
•     The list view should include a button that, when selected, should display different filtering 
options in a filtering menu.
RAT: The way results should be displayed in a list. DEP: FR6
3.2.1.9 Functional requirement 1.9

ID: FR9
TITLE: Mobile application - Navigation to restaurant
DESC: A user should be able to select a pin on a map or an element on a list. When a selection is 
made, the location of the restaurant should be sent to the mobile phone’s GPS-navigation program. 
The user should then be navigated to the destination. When the destination is reached, a user 
should be able to go back to the search page on the mobile application.
RAT: To navigate a user to a chosen restaurant. DEP: FR7, FR8
3.2.1.10 Functional requirement 1.10

ID: FR10
TITLE: Mobile application - Switch result view
DESC: A user should be able to switch between a map view and a list view for all search options.
RAT: In order for a user to switch between result views. DEP: FR7, FR8

3.2.1.11 Functional requirement 1.11

ID: FR11
TITLE: Mobile application - Selecting the information link
DESC: A user should be able to select the information link, which is included on all result items. 
The link will direct the user to an information page, which includes a picture of the restaurant, 
the restaurant name, address, phone number, e-mail address, type of food, average price, restaurant 
description and a menu with name, description and price of the different dishes.
RAT: In order to show information about the restaurants. DEP: FR7, FR8
3.2.1.12 Functional requirement 1.12

ID: FR12
TITLE: Mobile application - Search by price
DESC: A user should be able to input a maximum and a minimum price range. The result is displayed 
in a list view by default.
RAT: In order for a user to search by price. DEP: FR8
3.2.1.13 Functional requirement 1.13

ID: FR13
TITLE: Mobile application - Search by destination
DESC: A user should be able to input a maximum and a minimum distance, according to his/her 
position. By default the minimum distance is set to 0 km and the maximum to 10 km. The user should 
be able to input a higher or lower maximum distance and a higher minimum distance than set by 
default. The result is displayed in a map view by default.
RAT: In order for a user to search by destination. DEP: FR7
3.2.1.14 Functional requirement 1.14

ID: FR14
TITLE: Accepted input for price and destination search
DESC:  Integers should be accepted as input when a user searches by price or destination. If the 
system receives an invalid input the user should be informed and prompted to insert an accepted 
input.
RAT: In order for a user to search with valid input. DEP: FR12, FR13
3.2.1.15 Functional requirement 1.15

ID: FR15
TITLE: Mobile application - Search by restaurant type
DESC: A user should be able to select a restaurant type in a given list as input. The result is 
displayed in a map view by default.
RAT: In order for a user to search by restaurant type. DEP: FR7
3.2.1.16 Functional requirement 1.16

ID: FR16
TITLE: Mobile application - Search by specific dish
DESC: A user should be able to select a specific dish in a given list as input. The result is 
displayed in a map view by default.
RAT: In order for a user to search by specific dish. DEP: FR7
3.2.1.17 Functional requirement 1.17

ID: FR17
TITLE: Mobile application - Free-text search
DESC: A user should be able to conduct a search by providing either restaurant name, restaurant 
description, restaurant address, restaurant type or restaurant menu in the free-text search field. 
The result is displayed in a map view by default.
RAT: In order for a user to search through the free-text search. DEP: FR7
3.2.1.18 Functional requirement 1.18

ID: FR18
TITLE: Mobile application - No match found
DESC: If no match is found the user should be informed but kept on the search page in order to get 
the possibility to conduct a new search right away.
RAT: In order for user to conduct a new search if no match is found. DEP: FR5
3.2.1.19 Functional requirement 1.19

ID: FR19
TITLE: Mobile application - Sorting results
DESC: When viewing the results in a list, a user should be able to sort the results according to 
price, distance, restaurant type, specific dish or restaurant name.
•     When sorting by restaurant name, specific dish or restaurant type the results should be 
ordered alphabetically.
•     When sorting by price the results should be ordered from cheapest to most expensive.
•     When sorting by distance the results should be ordered from closets to furthest distance 
according to the user’s position.

When the sort button for a specific search option is clicked, then the order should be reversed and 
ordered in a descending matter. If the sort button is clicked again the order of the results should 
be reversed.
RAT: In order for a user to sort results in a list. DEP: FR8

3.2.1.20 Functional requirement 1.20

ID: FR20
TITLE: Mobile application - Filtering results
DESC: When viewing the results in a list or a map, a user should be able to filter the results in a 
filtering menu. The filtering options include:
•     increasing or decreasing the maximum distance
•     increasing or decreasing the maximum price
•     choosing a restaurant type
•     choosing a specific dish

When filtering the results, only the existing results shall be affected and a new search query 
should not be sent.
RAT: In order for a user to filter results in a list or a map. DEP: FR7, FR8
3.2.1.21 Functional requirement 1.21

ID: FR21
TITLE: Mobile application - Profile page
DESC: On the mobile application, a user should have a profile page. On the profile page a user can 
edit his/her information, which includes the password, e-mail address and phone number. A user 
should also be able to choose what language the mobile application should be set to. The different 
language choices are Swedish, English, Spanish and French.
RAT: In order for a user to have a profile page on the mobile application. DEP: FR1
3.2.2 User Class 2 - Restaurant Owner

3.2.2.1 Functional requirement 2.1

ID: FR22
Feature: Create an account In order to create an account A restaurant owner
Should register on the web-portal

Scenario: Required information for registration Given the restaurant owner wants to create an 
account And the restaurant owner does not have an account

When the restaurant owner registers on the web-portal by providing user-name And password
And address
And e-mail address And phone number
Then the restaurant owner should be able to apply for verification

Scenario: Full information for registration
Given the restaurant owner wants to create an account And the restaurant owner does not have an 
account
When the restaurant owner registers on the web-portal by providing user name And password
And address
And e-mail address And phone number And mobile number
Then the restaurant owner should be able to apply for verification

Scenario: Confirmed registration
Given the restaurant owner has applied for verification
And has not received a confirmation e-mail after registration When the restaurant owner receives a 
confirmation e-mail Then the restaurant owner should be able to log in
3.2.2.2 Functional requirement 2.2

ID: FR23
Feature: Restaurant owner log-in
In order to use the system A restaurant owner
Should be logged in to the web-portal

Scenario: Successful log-in
Given the restaurant owner wants to log in
When the restaurant owner logs in with his/her account
Then the restaurant owner should be logged in as a restaurant owner

Scenario: Retrieve password
Given the restaurant owner wants to log in And has lost the password
When the restaurant owner enters his/her email address in the “Retrieve password” form And submits 
the form
Then the restaurant owner should receive an email containing the password

3.2.2.3 Functional requirement 2.3

ID: FR24
Feature: Manage information In order to manage information A restaurant owner
Should be logged in to the web-portal


Scenario: Show fields for managing information
Given the restaurant owner is logged in
When the restaurant owner wants to manage information
Then the restaurant owner should be able to manage information in a form

Scenario: Filling in mandatory fields
Given the restaurant owner wants to fill in the mandatory fields of the form When the restaurant 
owner provides average price
And address
And e-mail address And phone number And restaurant name
Then the restaurant owner has filled the mandatory fields of the form

Scenario: Filling in optional fields
Given the restaurant owner of a restaurant wants to fill in optional fields in the form When the 
restaurant owner provides restaurant description
And menu
And type of restaurant And picture of restaurant And mobile phone
Then the restaurant owner has filled in optional fields in the form

Scenario: Filling in menu field
Given the restaurant owner wants to fill in the menu field in the form When the restaurant owner 
provides dish name
And dish description And dish price
Then the restaurant owner has filled in the menu field in the form

Scenario: Adding information with mandatory fields
Given the restaurant owner has filled in the mandatory fields of the form When the restaurant owner 
submits the form
Then the information about the restaurant should be added

Scenario: Adding information with mandatory and optional fields
Given the restaurant owner has filled in the mandatory fields of the form
And filled in one or more optional fields of the form When the restaurant owner submits the form
Then the information about the restaurant should be added

Scenario: Deleting information Given the restaurant owner is logged in And information exists
When the restaurant owner deletes information Then the information should be deleted
Scenario: Editing information
Given the restaurant owner is logged in And information exists
When the restaurant owner edits information Then the information should be edited
3.2.2.4 Functional requirement 2.4

ID: FR25
Feature: Restaurant owner - Selecting preferred language on the web-portal
In order to understand the web-portal A restaurant owner
Should be able to select a preferred language for the web-portal

Scenario: Select English as preferred language
Given the restaurant owner wants to select a preferred language When the restaurant owner selects 
English as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in English
Scenario: Select Swedish as preferred language
Given the restaurant owner wants to select a preferred language When the restaurant owner selects 
Swedish as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in Swedish
Scenario: Select French as preferred language
Given the restaurant owner wants to select a preferred language When the restaurant owner selects 
French as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in French
Scenario: Select Spanish as preferred language
Given the restaurant owner wants to select a preferred language When the restaurant owner selects 
Spanish as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in Spanish

3.2.3 User Class 3 - Administrator

3.2.3.1 Functional requirement 3.1

ID: FR26
Feature: Administrator log in In order to administer the system An administrator
Should be logged in to the web-portal

Scenario: Successful log-in
Given the administrator wants to log in
When the administrator logs in with an administrator account Then the administrator should be 
logged in as an administrator
3.2.3.2 Functional requirement 3.2

ID: FR27
Feature: Verify restaurant owner
In order to allow a restaurant owner to use the system An administrator
Should be able to verify the restaurant owner

Scenario: Verify a restaurant owner
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator verifies a restaurant owner Then the restaurant owner should be able to log 
in
And the restaurant owner should be notified by a confirmation email

Scenario: Reject a restaurant owner
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator rejects a restaurant owner Then the restaurant owner should not be able to 
log in
And the restaurant owner should be notified by a rejection email

3.2.3.3 Functional requirement 3.3

ID: FR28
Feature: Manage restaurant types
In order to have a list of restaurant types An administrator
Should be able to manage the restaurant types

Scenario: Add a new restaurant type
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator creates a new restaurant type
Then the new restaurant type should be added to the list of restaurant types

Scenario: Editing an existing restaurant type
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator edits an existing restaurant type
Then the restaurant type should be updated in the list of restaurant types

Scenario: Delete a restaurant type
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator deletes a restaurant type
Then the deleted restaurant type should be removed from the list of restaurant types

3.2.3.4 Functional requirement 3.4
ID: FR29
Feature: Manage restaurant dishes
In order to have a list of dishes An administrator
Should be able to manage the dishes

Scenario: Add a new dish
Given the administrator is logged in When the administrator creates a new dish
Then the new dish should be added to the list of dishes

Scenario: Editing an existing dish
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator edits an existing dish
Then the dish should be updated in the list of dishes

Scenario: Delete a dish
Given the administrator is logged in When the administrator deletes a dish
Then the deleted dish should be removed from the list of dishes

3.2.3.5 Functional requirement 3.5

ID: FR30
Feature: Manage restaurant information In order to manage restaurant information An administrator
Should be logged in to the web-portal

Scenario: Add restaurant information
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator adds restaurant information Then the information should be added to the 
restaurant
Scenario: Delete restaurant information
Given the administrator is logged in
And information about a restaurant exists When the administrator deletes the information
Then the information about the restaurant should be deleted

Scenario: Edit restaurant information
Given the administrator is logged in
And information about a restaurant exists When the administrator edits the information
Then the information about the restaurant should be edited

3.2.3.6 Functional requirement 3.6
ID: FR31
Feature: Manage users
In order to keep track of the users An administrator
Should be able to manage the users

Scenario: Edit an existing user’s information
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator edits an existing user Then the user information should be updated
Scenario: Delete/Inactivate an existing user
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator deletes an existing user Then the user should be deleted
3.2.3.7 Functional requirement 3.7

ID: FR32
Feature: Manage restaurant owners
In order to keep track of the restaurant owners An administrator
Should be able to manage the restaurant owners

Scenario: Add a new restaurant owner
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator creates a new restaurant owner Then the new restaurant owner should be added
Scenario: Edit an existing restaurant owner
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator edits an existing restaurant owner Then the restaurant owner information 
should be updated
Scenario: Delete an existing restaurant owner
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator deletes an existing restaurant owner Then the restaurant owner should be 
deleted
And the restaurant information should be deleted

3.2.3.8 Functional requirement 3.8

ID: FR33
Feature: Administrator - Selecting preferred language on the web-portal
In order to understand the web-portal An administrator
Should be able to select a preferred language for the web-portal

Scenario: Select English as preferred language
Given the administrator wants to select a preferred language When the administrator selects English 
as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in English
Scenario: Select Swedish as preferred language
Given the administrator wants to select a preferred language When the administrator selects Swedish 
as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in Swedish
Scenario: Select French as preferred language
Given the administrator wants to select a preferred language When the administrator selects French 
as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in French
Scenario: Select Spanish as preferred language
Given the administrator wants to select a preferred language When the administrator selects Spanish 
as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in Spanish
3.3 Performance requirements
The requirements in this section provide a detailed specification of the user interaction with the 
software and measurements placed on the system performance.
3.3.1 Prominent search feature

ID: QR1
TITLE: Prominent search feature
DESC: The search feature should be prominent and easy to find for the user. RAT: In order to for a 
user to find the search feature easily.
DEP: none

3.3.2 Usage of the search feature

ID: QR2
TITLE: Usage of the search feature
DESC: The different search options should be evident, simple and easy to understand. RAT: In order 
to for a user to perform a search easily.
DEP: none

3.3.3 Usage of the result in the list view

ID: QR3
TITLE: Usage of the result in the list view
DESC: The results displayed in the list view should be user friendly and easy to understand. 
Selecting an element in the result list should only take one click.
RAT: In order to for a user to use the list view easily. DEP: none
3.3.4 Usage of the result in the map view

ID: QR4
TITLE: Usage of the result in the map view
DESC: The results displayed in the map view should be user friendly and easy to understand. 
Selecting a pin on the map should only take one click.
RAT: In order to for a user to use the map view easily. DEP: none
3.3.5 Usage of the information link

ID: QR5
TITLE: Usage of the information link
DESC: The information link should be prominent and it should be evident that it is a usable link. 
Selecting the information link should only take one click.
RAT: In order to for a user to use the information link easily. DEP: none
3.3.6 Response time

ID: QR6
TAG: ResponseTime
GIST: The fastness of the search SCALE: The response time of a search
METER: Measurements obtained from 1000 searches during testing. MUST: No more than 2 seconds 100% 
of the time.
WISH: No more than 1 second 100% of the time.

3.3.7 System dependability

ID: QR8
TAG: SystemDependability
GIST: The fault tolerance of the system.
SCALE:  If the system loses the connection to the Internet or to the GPS device or the system gets 
some strange input, the user should be informed.
METER: Measurements obtained from 1000 hours of usage during testing. MUST: 100% of the time.
3.4 Design constraints
This section includes the design constraints on the software caused by the hardware.

3.4.1 Hard drive space

ID: QR10
TAG: HardDriveSpace GIST: Hard drive space.
SCALE: The application’s need of hard drive space. METER: MB.
MUST: No more than 20 MB. PLAN: No more than 15 MB. WISH: No more than 10 MB. MB: DEFINED: Megabyte
3.4.2 Application memory usage

ID: QR11
TAG: ApplicationMemoryUsage
GIST: The amount of Operate System memory occupied by the application. SCALE: MB.
METER: Observations done from the performance log during testing MUST: No more than 20 MB.
PLAN: No more than 16 MB WISH: No more than 10 MB
Operate System: DEFINED: The mobile Operate System which the application is running on. MB: 
DEFINED: Megabyte.
3.5 Software system attributes
The requirements in this section specify the required reliability, availability, security and 
maintainability of the software system.
3.5.1 Reliability

ID: QR9
TAG: SystemReliability
GIST: The reliability of the system.
SCALE:  The reliability that the system gives the right result on a search. METER: Measurements 
obtained from 1000 searches during testing.
MUST: More than 98% of the searches. PLAN: More than 99% of the searches. WISH: 100% of the 
searches.
3.5.2 Availability

ID: QR7
TAG: SystemAvailability
GIST: The availability of the system when it is used.
SCALE: The average system availability (not considering network failing). METER: Measurements 
obtained from 1000 hours of usage during testing. MUST: More than 98% of the time.
PLAN: More than 99% of the time. WISH: 100% of the time.
ID: QR22
TITLE: Internet Connection
DESC: The application should be connected to the Internet.
RAT: In order for the application to communicate with the database. DEP: none
ID: QR23
TITLE: GPS Connection
DESC: The application should be connected to the GPS device.
RAT: In order for the application to get the users location, the map and to calculate the distance. 
DEP: none

3.5.3 Security

ID: QR12
TAG: CommunicationSecurity
GIST: Security of the communication between the system and server.
SCALE: The messages should be encrypted for log-in communications, so others cannot get user-name 
and password from those messages.
METER: Attempts to get user-name and password through obtained messages on 1000 log-in session 
during testing.
MUST: 100% of the Communication Messages in the communication of a log-in session should be 
encrypted.
Communication Messages: Defined: Every exchanged of information between client and server.

ID: QR13
TAG: RestaurantOwnerLoginAccountSecurity GIST: Security of accounts.
SCALE:  If a restaurant owner tries to log in to the web portal with a non-existing account then 
the restaurant owner should not be logged in. The restaurant owner should be notified about log-in 
failure. METER: 1000 attempts to log-in with a non-existing user account during testing.
MUST: 100% of the time.

ID: QR14
TAG: AdminLoginAccountSecurity GIST: Security of accounts.
SCALE:  If an admin tries to log in to the web portal with a non-existing account then the admin 
should not be logged in. The admin should be notified about log-in failure.
METER: 1000 attempts to log-in with a non-existing user account during testing. MUST: 100% of the 
time.
ID: QR15
TAG: RestaurantOwnerAccountSecurity GIST: Security of restaurant owners accounts.
SCALE: A restaurant owner and IP address should not be able to log-in for a certain time period 
after three times of failed log-in attempts.
METER: 1000 attempts to log-in during the lock period after user account has been locked because of 
failed log-in attempts of three times.
MUST: The locking period should be half an hour, and during that period the log-in function is 
disabled.

ID: QR16
TAG: AdminAccountSecurity GIST: Security of admin accounts.
SCALE: An admin and IP address should not be able to log-in to the web portal for a certain time 
period after three times of failed log-in attempts.
METER: 1000 attempts to log-in during the lock period after user account has been locked because of 
failed log-in attempts of three times.
MUST: The locking period should be half an hour, and during that period the log-in function is 
disabled.

ID: QR17
TAG: UserCreateAccountSecurity
GIST: The security of creating account for users of the system.
SCALE:  If a user wants to create an account and the desired user name is occupied, the user should 
be asked to choose a different user name.
METER: Measurements obtained on 1000 hours of usage during testing. MUST: 100% of the time.
ID: QR18
TAG: RestaurantOwnerCreateAccountSecurity
GIST: The security of creating account for restaurant owners of the system.
SCALE:  If a restaurant owner wants to create an account and the desired user name is occupied, the 
restaurant owner should be asked to choose a different user name.
METER: Measurements obtained on 1000 hours of usage during testing. MUST: 100% of the time.


3.5.4 Maintainability

ID: QR19
TITLE: Application extendibility
DESC: The application should be easy to extend. The code should be written in a way that it favors 
implementation of new functions.
RAT: In order for future functions to be implemented easily to the application. DEP: none
ID: QR21
TITLE: Application testability
DESC: Test environments should be built for the application to allow testing of the applications 
different functions.
RAT: In order to test the application. DEP: none
3.5.5 Portability

ID: QR20
TITLE: Application portability
DESC: The application should be portable with iOS and Android. RAT: The adaptable platform for the 
application to run on.
DEP: none


4. Prioritization and Release Plan

In order to get a view of how to divide the requirements into different releases and what 
requirements should be included in which release, a prioritization of the requirements is needed. 
This section discusses the choice of prioritization methods and gives a suggestion of how the 
release plan for these requirements could look like.
4.1 Choice of prioritization method
When prioritizing the requirements the ten most important ones were picked out first. This was done 
with a simple “1 to 10” ranking method, with one being “not important” and ten “very important”. 
Based on the elicitation meetings, and the perceived ideas of what was important to the different 
stakeholders, a number was set for each requirement. The numbers were then summed up for each 
requirement and the ten with the highest score were chosen to be prioritized with the cost value 
approach. The results, which are red-marked, can be seen in Appendix I and as shown, it turned out 
to be five functional requirements and five quality requirements. These requirements were then 
prioritized according to the cost value approach and the results can be viewed under Appendix II.
The remaining requirements were prioritized according to the “Five-Way Priority Scheme” as shown in 
Appendix III. This method was chosen since it gives the different stakeholders the same importance 
and has an enough wide range for determining which requirement is more important than the other 
[3].
However, in this prioritization process, the development team was not included as a stakeholder 
since the different features were not considered to be as important to them as for the other 
stakeholders.
Other methods for prioritization, such as the hundred-dollar test and the yes-no vote, were also 
considered. The hundred-dollar test is quite similar to the five-way priority scheme, since it also 
gives a wide range for ranking the requirements. However, it is more easily misused since someone 
could save all their money and put them on a requirement that they think is very important [3]. 
Others might not agree that this requirement is important but it might still get the most votes 
since one person cared about it [3].
The yes-no vote method might be fairly simple to carry out, however the range is too narrow. For 
instance, if two requirements are not very important it would be hard to determine which of those 
requirements that is more important than the other [3].
In conclusion, weighing the disadvantages and advantages of these methods against each other lead 
us to choose the five-way priority scheme.

4.2 Release Plan
The requirements were divided into three releases based on the prioritization and their 
dependencies. The three different releases were assembled so that each would work as a fully 
functional application.
In the first release the requirements that build up the foundation of the application were 
included, together with the most highly prioritized requirements and their dependencies.

The second release also includes important requirements. However, these requirements are not vital 
for a functional application. They are more suited to act as additional features that can 
contribute to making the software product more attractive.
The third release includes the requirements that can be afforded to discard if the project gets 
delayed or overruns the budget.
For further details about the release plan, see Appendix IV.


Appendix I: Selection for Cost-Value Approach

Table 2 – Select of ten most important requirements
Requirement ID   Magnus Elmira Faegheh   Niclas  Farhan Sean   Sarah  Total


FR1
9             7           5
6          6            8         6          47


FR2
3             6           4
3          4            5         3          28


FR3
4             6           8
6          7            7         6          44


FR4
6             5           3
6          7            6         6          39


FR5
6             9           3
5          7            6         5          41


FR6
8             10         10
9          9            10       10        66


FR7
10           8           10
10        8
10       8          64


FR8
10           10         10
8          8            10       8          64


FR9
6             8           5
8          9            7         8          51


FR10
3             6           7
5          6            8         4          39


FR11
3             4           3
6          5            5         5          31


FR12
4             3           7
6          6            7         7          40


FR13
4             6           9
7          7            7         7          47


FR14
4             4           3
6          6            6         5          34


FR15
4             7           7
5          6            6         6          41


FR16
4             7           5
5          6            6         6          39


FR17
4             3           4
2          5            7         3          28


FR18
6             6           3
7          4            4         6          36


FR19
5             4           5
5          4            7         5          35


FR20
5             7           6
5          6            6         5          40


FR21
5             4           4
6          5            4         6          34


FR22
6             8           6
6          8            7         6          47


FR23
8             7           6
5          5            6         6          43


FR24
5             10         9
10        9
5         10        58


FR25
3             5           5
4          4            3         4          28


FR26
8             5           8
6          5            7         6          45


FR27
9             9           8
7          8            6         8          55


FR28
7             7           5
5          7            5         5          41


FR29
7             7           5
5          6            5         5          40


FR30
5             2           6
3          5            4         4          29


FR31
9             10         5
8          6            4         8          50


FR32
8             7           5
8          6            5         8          47


FR33
3             4           5
4          4            3         4          27


QR1
8             7           7
7          7            6         7          49


QR2
6             6           6
7          5            7         7          44


QR3
6             8           5
6          5            7         6          43


QR4
6             8           5
6          7            7         6          45


QR5
6             6           4
5          4            5         5          35


QR6
8             9           5
7          9            10       8          56


QR7
9             8           7
9          7            8         9          57


QR8
6             7           6
8          7            8         7          49


QR9
6             9           9
9          7            7
10        57


QR10
4             4           3
3          4            6         3          27


QR11
4             6           2
3          4            6         3          28


QR12
9             9           7
8          6            8         8          55


QR13
7             5           6
7          4            5         6          40


QR14
8             5           8
9          5            5         7          47


QR15
7             7           7
6          6            7         6          46


QR16
8             9           8
8          6            7         7          53


QR17
6             6           5
5          5            6         5          38


QR18
6             6           5
8          5            6         6          42


QR19
6             8           7
7          7            7         7          49


QR20
7             8           6
6          7            5         6          45


QR21
8             6           4
7          7            7         6          45


QR22
8             9           9
8          8            4         8          54


QR23
7             9           8
7          7            4         7          49


Appendix II: Prioritization Result of 10 selected Requirements Using Cost-Value Approach
Table 3 – 10 most important requirements

Requirement ID    Title                                                                          
Requirement Type

FR6                         Mobile application - Search                                     
Function FR7                         Mobile application - Search result in a map view    Function 
FR8                         Mobile application - Search result in a list view      Function FR24    
                   Restaurant owner manages information                   Function FR27             
          Administrator verifies restaurant owner                   Function QR6                    
    System response time                                               Quality
QR7                        System Availability                                                  
Quality

QR9                        System Reliability                                                    
Quality

QR12                      Communication Security                                          Quality

QR22                      Internet Connection                                                  
Quality


Table 4 – Value

Value    FR6    FR7    FR8    FR24    FR27    QR6    QR7    QR9    QR12    QR22


FR6      1         5         7         7
1/3
1/5
1/3
1/3       5            7

FR7
1/5      1         3         5
6           1/5
1/3
1/3
1/3         5

FR8
1/7
1/3      1         4
5           1/6
1/4
1/4
1/5         3

FR24
1/7
1/5
1/4      1
1/3
1/5
1/5
1/3       5            4

FR27    3
1/6
1/5      3
1           1/9
1/5
1/5
1/7         2
QR6      5         5         6         5           9           1          3          3          2   
         8

QR7      3         3         4         5
5           1/3       1
3          1/3         7

QR9      3         3         4         3
5           1/3
1/3       1
1/3         5

QR12
1/5      3         5
1/5        7
1/2       3          3          1            9

QR22
1/7
1/5
1/3
1/4
1/2
1/8
1/7
1/5
1/9         1





Table 5 – Cost


COST
FR6
FR7
FR8
FR24
FR27
QR6
QR7
QR9
QR12
QR22



FR6       1

1/5

1/2      3

5           1/7

1/3

1/5

1/3         7


FR7       5         1
1/5      7
3           1/5
1/3
1/5       3            5

FR8       2         5         1         3
5           1/9
1/5
1/6
1/5         7

FR24
1/3
1/7
1/3      1
3           1/3       2
1/5       3            7

FR27
1/5
1/3
1/5
1/3        1
1/7
1/6
1/7
1/6         2
QR6       7         5         9         3           7           1          3          2          3  
          9

QR7       3         3         5
1/2        6
1/3       1          2          3            7

QR9       5         5         6         5
7           1/2
1/2       1          3            5

QR12     3
1/3      5
1/5
1/3        6
1/3
1/3       1            5

QR22
1/7
1/5      7         7
1/2
1/9
1/7
1/5
1/5         1


Figure 9 – Result of AHP method


Figure 10 – The value distribution and estimated cost


Table 6 - The value distribution and estimated cost
FR6        FR7        FR8      FR24    FR27      QR6       QR7       QR9       QR12     QR22
Cost          5,31%       9,18%     7,91%     7,65%       1,73%    22,55%    13,92%    15,43%    
12,60%       3,71%
Value     13,60%       7,12%     4,80%     5,93%       4,45%    23,41%    13,78%    10,31%    
15,06%       1,53%


Appendix III: Five-Way Priority Scheme
Table 7 – Data of five-way priority scheme prioritization

Requirement ID

FR1









FR2









FR3









FR4









FR5



Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas

Priority by Stakeholder
User           Restaurant owner      Administrator         Customer
1                             -2                          -2                         2
1                             -1                          -2                         2
1                             -2                          -2                         1
1                             -2                          -2                         1
1                             -1                          -1                         1
1                          -1,6                       -1,8                      1,4
-1

13
User           Restaurant owner      Administrator         Customer
1                             -2                          -2                         1
1                             -1                          -2                         1
0                             -2                          -2                         1
-1                             -2                          -2                         0
0                             -2                          -2                         0
0,2                          -1,8                          -2                      0,6
-3

34
User           Restaurant owner      Administrator         Customer
1                             -2                          -2                         1
0                             -2                          -2                         1
1                             -2                          -2                         0
0                             -2                          -2                         1
1                             -2                          -1                         1
0,6                             -2                       -1,8                      0,8
-2,4

29
User           Restaurant owner      Administrator         Customer
0                             -2                          -2                         0
0                             -2                          -2                         0
1                             -2                          -2                         0
0                             -2                          -2                       -1
0                             -2                          -2                         0
0,2                             -2                          -2                    -0,2
-4

41
User           Restaurant owner      Administrator         Customer
1                             -2                          -2                         0
1                             -2                          -2                         0
0                             -2                          -2                       -1

FR9

FR10

FR11

FR12

FR13
Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira






User









User









User









User









User
-1
0
0,2




1
1
1
1
1
1




1
1
1
1
0
0,8




1
1
0
0
0
0,4




1
1
2
2
2
1,6




1
1


-2
-2
-2


42
Restaurant owner
1
0
0
-2
0
-0,2


8
Restaurant owner
-2
0
-2
-2
-2
-1,6


36
Restaurant owner
1
1
1
1
1
1


5
Restaurant owner
-1
0
-2
-2
-1
-1,2


18
Restaurant owner
-1
0
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-1
-1
-0,6
-4,4


Customer
1
2
-1
1
0
0,6
-0,6


Customer
1
0
-2
-1
0
-0,4
-3,2


Customer
1
1
-2
1
1
0,4
-0,2


Customer
0
0
-2
0
1
-0,2
-1,8


Customer
0
0









FR14









FR15









FR16









FR17









FR18
Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus







User









User









User









User









User
2
2
2
1,6




1
0
1
0
0
0,4




1
1
1
1
1
1




1
1
1
1
1
1




1
1
1
0
1
0,8




2


-2
-2
-1
-1,2


17
Restaurant owner
-1
-2
-2
-2
-2
-1,8


37
Restaurant owner
-1
0
-2
-2
-1
-1,2


24
Restaurant owner
-1
0
-2
-2
-2
-1,4


31
Restaurant owner
-1
0
-2
-2
-1
-1,2


35
Restaurant owner
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
1
1
0
-1,6


Customer
1
-1
1
0
0
0,2
-3,2


Customer
1
0
-2
0
1
0
-2,2


Customer
1
0
-2
-1
1
-0,2
-2,6


Customer
1
-1
-2
-1
0
-0,6
-3


Customer
1










FR19









FR20









FR21









FR22
Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.








User









User









User









User









User
1
2
1
1
1,4




1
1
1
1
1
1




1
2
1
1
1
1,2




0
1
0
-1
0
0




-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-1
-2
-2
-2
-1,8


25
Restaurant owner
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2


38
Restaurant owner
-2
-1
-2
-2
-2
-1,8


32
Restaurant owner
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2


43
Restaurant owner
2
2
2
2
2
2


6
Restaurant owner
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
1
0
-1
0
0,2
-2,2


Customer
1
0
-2
-1
0
-0,4
-3,4


Customer
1
1
-2
0
0
0
-2,6


Customer
0
0
-1
-1
0
-0,4
-4,4


Customer
2
2
1
2
1
1,6
-0,4


Customer


FR23









FR25









FR26









FR28









FR29
Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of
Req.









User









User









User









User
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2




-2
-2
-2
-2
-1
-1,8




-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2




-2
-2
-1
-2
-1
-1,6




-2
-2
-1
-2
-1
-1,6
1
2
2
2
2
1,8


14
Restaurant owner
1
1
1
0
1
0,8


39
Restaurant owner
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2


16
Restaurant owner
0
1
1
-1
0
0,2


2
Restaurant owner
0
1
1
-1
0
0,2


3
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
2
1
2
2
2
1,8



Administrator
1
0
2
2
1
1,2



Administrator
1
0
2
2
1
1,2
2
1
1
1
1
1,2
-1


Customer
1
0
-2
-1
0
-0,4
-3,4


Customer
1
0
1
1
1
0,8
-1,4


Customer
1
1
0
1
1
0,8
0,6


Customer
1
1
0
1
1
0,8
0,6



FR30

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah
User
Restaurant owner
-2                              0
-1                              0
-2                              0
-2                              1
-1                              1
Administrator
1
1
2
2
2
Customer
1
1
0
1
1






FR31









FR32









FR33









QR1
Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of




User









User









User









User
-1,6




0
0
0
0
0
0




-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2




-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2




2
2
2
2
2
2
0,4


1
Restaurant owner
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2


7
Restaurant owner
0
0
0
1
0
0,2


4
Restaurant owner
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2


44
Restaurant owner
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2

10
1,6



Administrator
1
0
2
1
1
1



Administrator
1
0
2
1
1
1



Administrator
0
0
0
0
0
0



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
0,8
1,2


Customer
1
1
0
0
1
0,6
-0,4


Customer
1
1
0
1
1
0,8
0


Customer
0
0
-2
-1
0
-0,6
-4,6


Customer
2
2
0
1
1
1,2
-0,8



QR2









QR3









QR4









QR5









QR8
Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum

User           Restaurant owner      Administrator         Customer
2                             -2                          -2                         2
2                             -2                          -2                         2
2                             -2                          -2                         0
2                             -2                          -2                         1
2                             -2                          -2                         1
2                             -2                          -2                      1,2
-0,8

11
User           Restaurant owner      Administrator         Customer
1                             -2                          -2                         1
1                             -1                          -2                         1
1                             -1                          -2                         0
0                             -1                          -2                       -1
1                             -1                          -2                         1
0,8                          -1,2                          -2                      0,4
-2

21
User           Restaurant owner      Administrator         Customer
1                             -2                          -2                         1
1                             -1                          -2                         1
1                             -1                          -2                         0
1                             -1                          -2                         0
1                             -1                          -2                         0
1                          -1,2                          -2                      0,4
-1,8

19
User           Restaurant owner      Administrator         Customer
1                             -1                          -2                         1
1                             -1                          -2                         1
1                              0                          -2                       -2
1                              1                          -2                       -1
0                             -1                          -2                         0
0,8                          -0,4                          -2                    -0,2
-1,8

20
User           Restaurant owner      Administrator         Customer
1                             -2                          -2                         1
1                             -2                          -2                         0
1                             -2                          -2                         2
1                             -2                          -2                         0
0                             -1                          -1                         0
0,8                          -1,8                       -1,8                      0,6
-2,2



QR10









QR11









QR13









QR14









QR15
Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average

26
User           Restaurant owner      Administrator         Customer
-1                             -2                          -2                       -1
-1                             -2                          -2                         0
-1                             -2                          -2                       -1
-1                             -2                          -2                       -1
-1                             -2                          -2                         0
-1                             -2                          -2                    -0,6
-5,6

45
User           Restaurant owner      Administrator         Customer
-1                             -2                          -2                       -1
0                             -2                          -2                         0
-1                             -2                          -2                       -1
-1                             -2                          -2                       -1
-1                                                          -2                       -1
-0,8                             -2                          -2                    -0,8
-5,6

46
User           Restaurant owner      Administrator         Customer
-2                              2                          -1                         2
-2                              1                          -2                         1
-2                              2                          -2                         2
-2                              2                          -2                         1
-2                              1                          -2
-2                           1,6                       -1,8                      1,5
-0,7

9
User           Restaurant owner      Administrator         Customer
-2                             -2                           2                         2
-2                             -2                           1                         1
-2                             -2                           2                         2
-2                             -2                           2                         2
-2                             -2                           1                         1
-2                             -2                        1,6                      1,6
-0,8

12
User           Restaurant owner      Administrator         Customer
-2                              0                          -2                       -1
-2                              0                          -2                         2
-2                              1                          -2                         2
-2                              0                          -2                         2
-2                              1                          -2                         1
-2                           0,4                          -2                      1,2


Sum Rank of Req.
-2,4

30


QR16

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah
User
Restaurant owner
-2                             -2
-2                             -1
-2                             -2
-2                             -2
-2                             -2
Administrator
0
0
1
1
0
Customer
-1
2
2
0
0






QR17









QR18









QR19









QR20
Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah




User









User









User









User
-2




2
1
1
0
0
0,8




-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2




-2
-1
-2
-2
-1
-1,6




0
0
1
1
-1
-1,8


33
Restaurant owner
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2


22
Restaurant owner
2
1
1
0
0
0,8


23
Restaurant owner
-2
-1
-2
-2
-1
-1,6


40
Restaurant owner
-2
-2
-2
-2
-1
0,4



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
0,6
-2,8


Customer
0
2
2
1
1
1,2
-2


Customer
0
2
2
1
1
1,2
-2


Customer
2
2
1
2
1
1,6
-3,6


Customer
2
2
1
1
1






QR21









QR23
Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.

Magnus Elmira Niclas Faegheh Sarah Average Sum Rank of Req.




User









User
0,2




-2
-1
-2
1
-1
-1




1
1
1
1
1
1
-1,8


27
Restaurant owner
-2
-1
-2
-2
-1
-1,6


28
Restaurant owner
-2
0
-2
-2
-1
-1,4


15
-2



Administrator
-2
-1
-2
-2
-1
-1,6



Administrator
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
-2
1,4
-2,2


Customer
2
2
2
2
2
2
-2,2


Customer
1
2
1
1
1
1,2
-1,2



Table 8 – Result of five-way priority scheme prioritization
Priority          Requirement ID
11                              FR30
12                              FR28
13                              FR29
14                              FR32
15                              FR11
16                              FR22
17                              FR31
18                              FR9
19                             QR13
20                              QR1
21                              QR2
22                             QR14
23                              FR1
24                              FR23
25                             QR23
26                              FR26
27                              FR13
28                              FR12
29                              QR4
30                              QR5
31                              QR3
32                             QR17
33                             QR18
34                              FR15
35                              FR18
36                              QR8
37                             QR20
38                             QR21
39                              FR3
40                             QR15
41                              FR16
42                              FR20
43                             QR16
44                              FR2
45                              FR17
46                              FR10
47                              FR14
48                              FR19
49                              FR25
50                             QR19
51                              FR4
52                              FR5
53                              FR21
54                              FR33
55                             QR10
56                             QR11


Appendix IV: Release Plan

Table 9 – Release plan
RE:        Dependencies     Description         Motivation                                          
   Release     Duration


FR1
-                Download mobile application
This requirement makes the
application available for users and is            1                80
therefore an important requirement to
include in the first release.

FR2
FR1
Download and notify users of new releases

The download of the new versions is important for users to be able to
receive the future release of the                    1                 2
application and will therefore be included in the first release.

FR3
-                User
registration
For the user to be able to use the
application, the user has to registrant.           1                 4
Consequently, this requirement needs
to be met in the first release.

FR4
FR1, FR3
User Log-in

For the user to be able to use the
application, the user has to log in.                1                 2
Consequently, this requirement needs
to be met in the first release.


FR5
FR1
Retrieve Password
For the user to be able to receive a forgotten password will have to wait
to the second release. This is not vital          2                 1
for the application and was therefore not included in the first release.

FR6
FR4
Search
The search feature is one of the most important and vital part of the
system. It's part of the basic goal of              1                 2
the program and should therefore be included in the first release.

FR7





FR8
FR6, QR22, QR23




FR6, QR22
Search result in a map view




Search result in a list view
The ability to show the search result in a map view is part of the basic
goal of the program and should                    1                 1
therefore be included in the first release.
The ability to show the search result
in a list view is part of the basic goal            2                 2
of the program. We have decided to put this one in the second release and only include the map 
result view in the first release.

FR9
FR7, FR8
Navigation to restaurant
To make the first release interesting
and useful for the users, this is                      1                 2
included in the first release.

FR10
FR7, FR8
Switch result view
The switch between the result views will be implemented after the result list is implemented. This 
is not in
some way vital for the application                3                 1
and can be discarded if the project gets delayed or overruns the budget.


FR11
FR7, FR8
Selecting the information link
This will be added as an additional
feature in the second release to make           2                 1
the application more attractive for the
users.

FR12




FR13

FR8




FR7

Search by price




Search by destination
This will be added as an additional feature in the third release to make
the application more attractive for the          2                 1
users.
This is the search function that will
be included in the first release.                     1                 1

FR14
FR12, FR13
Accepted input for price and destination search
This is a requirement that will make the application more stable. It will be
added in the third release.                             3                 1

FR15
FR7
Search by restaurant type
This will be added as an additional
feature to the second release to make           3                 3
the application more attractive for the
users.

FR16
FR7
Search by specific dish
This will be added as an additional feature in the third release to make
the application more attractive for the          3                 3
users.

FR17
FR6
Free-text search
This will be added as an additional
feature to the first release to make the          2                 3
application more attractive for the
users.

FR18
FR5
No search match found

This is a requirement that will make the application more stable and make
the user experience better. It is not               3                 1
vital and will be added in the third release.


FR19
FR8
Sorting results
This will be added as an additional feature to the first release to make the
application more attractive for the                2                 2
users.

FR20
FR7, FR8
Filtering results
This will be added as an additional feature to the first release to make the
application more attractive for the                2                 4
users.

FR21
FR1
Profile page

This will be added as an additional
feature in the third release to make               3                 1
the application more attractive for the
users.


FR22
-                Create account
- restaurant owner
The restaurant owner is a vital part of
the system and must be included in              1                 2
the first release.

FR23
FR27
Log-in - restaurant owner
This should be included in the first release because the restaurant owner
needs to be able to log in so hi/she               1                 2
can manage the restaurant information.

FR24
FR23, FR25
Manage info - restaurant owner
The ability for the restaurant owner to manage the information about the
restaurant is very important, if there             1                 2
is no information there is nothing to search for.

FR25      -
Selecting preferred language on the web-portal
- restaurant owner
This will be added as an additional feature in the third release to make
the application more attractive for the    3                3
users. It is not vital for the
application and will therefore be implemented in the third release.

FR26      -
Log-in - admin
This should be included in the first release because the administrator
needs to be able to log in so she/hi         1                2
can manage the system.


FR27
FR26, FR22
Verify restaurant owner
It's important for the admin to be able
to verify the restaurant owner’s              1                2
application for registration.

FR28
FR26
Manage rest. types - administrator
The type search will be added in the
second release.                                        2                1

FR29
FR26
Manage rest. dished - administrator
The dish search will be added in the
second release.                                        2                1

FR30
FR31
FR26
FR26
Manage rest. info - administrator
Manage users - administrator
The info link will be added in the
second release.                                        2                1
The administrator needs to be able to
handle users during the first release.       1                1

FR32
FR26
Selecting preferred language on the web-portal
- administrator
The administrator needs to be able to handle restaurant owners during the
first release.                                             1                1

FR33
FR26
Language selection on portal
This will be added as an additional feature in the third release to make the application more 
attractive for the
users. It is not vital for the                      3                2
application and will therefore be implemented in the third release.

QR1       -
Prominent search feature
This is a very high-prioritized
requirement. Consequently, this will      1                1
be included in the first release.

QR2       -
The ease of usage of the search feature
This is a very high-prioritized
requirement. Consequently, this will      1                1
be included in the first release.

QR3       -
The ease of usage of the result in the list view
This is a high-prioritized requirement. But we have decided to
put this in the second release in favor     2                1
for more vital and higher prioritized requirements.

QR4       -
The ease of usage of the result in map view
This is a high-prioritized requirement. But we have decided to
put this in the second release in favor     2                1
for more vital and higher prioritized requirements.

QR5       -
The ease of usage of the information link
This will be considered when all the mandatory requirements for the
system have been implemented.             3                1

QR6       -
System response time
This will be considered and continuously improved during the
whole process. We can only                   3                * discharge the requirement when all
functions are implemented.

QR7       -
System availability
This will be considered and
continuously improved during the          1                * whole process.

QR8
QR22, QR23, FR14, FR15, FR16, FR17
System dependability
This will be considered and continuously improved during the
whole process. We can only                   3                * discharge the requirement when all
functions are implemented.

QR9       -
System reliability
This will be considered and
continuously improved during the          1                * whole process.

QR10     -
Application hard drive space usage
This will be considered and continuously improved during the
whole process. We can only                   3                * discharge the requirement when all
functions are implemented.

QR11     -
Application memory usage
This will be considered and
continuously improved during the          3                * whole process. We can only discharge the requirement when all functions are implemented.

QR12     -
Communicatio n security
As the system grows, and with
respect for the users this need to be        2                4
included.

QR13
FR22
Non-existing account security for rest. Owners
This need to be included in the first release to enhance the safety of the
system.                                                    1                3

QR14     -
Non-existing account security for the administrators
This needs to be included in the first release to enhance the safety of the
system.                                                    1                3

QR15
FR23
Log in security for rest.
Owners
This needs to be included in the first release to prevent illegitimate
attempts to use the restaurants                1                3
owners account.

QR16     -
Log in security for administrators

This need to be included in the first
release to prevent illegitimate                 1                2
attempts to use the administrator
account.

QR17
FR3
User account creation security
This needs to be included in the first
release to resolve conflict between         1                2
users with the same name.

QR18
FR22
Restaurant owner account creation security
This needs to be included in the first release to resolve conflict between
restaurant owners with the same             1                2
name.

QR19     -
Application extendibility
This will be considered and
continuously improved during                1                * development.

QR20     -
QR21     -
Application portability
Application testability
This will be considered and
continuously improved during the          1                50
whole process.

The test environment for the system
will continuously be built as the system expands.           1                30

QR22     -
Internet connection
Internet connection is mandatory for
the application to work and is                 1                * therefore included in the first 
release.

QR23     -
GPS
connection
GPS connection is mandatory for the application to be able to show the
result and is therefore included in the     1                2
first release.


Figure 11 – Release plan schedule


Appendix V: I-star


Figure 12 – SD diagram


Figure 13 – SR diagram