ID: FR1
TITLE: Download mobile application
DESC: A user should be able to download the mobile application through either an application store 
or similar service on the mobile phone. The application should be free to download.
RAT: In order for a user to download the mobile application. DEP: None

ID: FR2
TITLE: Download and notify users of new releases
DESC: When a new/updated version or release of the software is released, the user should check for 
these manually. The download of the new release should be done through the mobile phone in the same 
way as downloading the mobile application.
RAT: In order for a user to download a new/updated release. DEP: FR1

ID: FR3
TITLE: User registration - Mobile application
DESC: Given that a user has downloaded the mobile application, then the user should be able to 
register through the mobile application. The user must provide user-name, password and e-mail 
address. The user can choose to provide a regularly used phone number.
RAT: In order for a user to register on the mobile application. DEP: FR1

ID: FR4
TITLE: User log-in - Mobile application
DESC: Given that a user has registered, then the user should be able to log in to the mobile 
application. The log-in information will be stored on the phone and in the future the user should 
be logged in automatically.
RAT: In order for a user to register on the mobile application. DEP: FR1, FR3

ID: FR5
TITLE: Retrieve password
DESC: Given that a user has registered, then the user should be able to retrieve his/her password 
by e- mail.
RAT: In order for a user to retrieve his/her password. DEP: FR1

ID: FR6
TITLE: Mobile application - Search
DESC: Given that a user is logged in to the mobile application, then the first page that is shown 
should be the search page. The user should be able to search for a restaurant, according to several 
search options.
The search options are Price, Destination, Restaurant type and Specific dish. There should also be 
a free- text search option. A user should be able to select multiple search options in one search.
RAT: In order for a user to search for a restaurant. DEP: FR4

ID: FR7
TITLE: Mobile application - Search result in a map view DESC:
•     Search results can be viewed on a map. On the map, the relevant and closest restaurants 
according to the user’s position are shown.
•     A specific pin will represent a specific restaurant location. On each pin there should be an 
information link.
•     There should be maximally 100 results displayed. The map view should have a default zoom.
•     The map view should include a button that, when selected, should display different filtering 
options in a filtering menu.
RAT: The way results are displayed in a map. DEP: FR6

ID: FR8
TITLE: Mobile application - Search result in a list view DESC:
•     Search results can be viewed in a list. Each element in the list represents a specific 
restaurant.
Each element should include the restaurant name, telephone number, type of food, distance according 
to the user’s position, average price, a short two-line description, a link to the
restaurant’s web-page and an information link.
•     There should be maximally 100 results displayed. If the result contains more restaurants than 
what can be displayed on the screen at one time, the user should be able to scroll through them.
•     When searching by price the restaurants should be sorted according to the following order:
1.    average price
2.    distance
3.    restaurant type
4.    specific dish
•     When searching by a search option, other than price, the restaurants should be sorted 
according to the following order:
1.    distance
2.    average price
3.    restaurant type
4.    specific dish
•     The list view should include a header with different selectable sorting options.
•     The list view should include a button that, when selected, should display different filtering 
options in a filtering menu.
RAT: The way results should be displayed in a list. DEP: FR6

ID: FR9
TITLE: Mobile application - Navigation to restaurant
DESC: A user should be able to select a pin on a map or an element on a list. When a selection is 
made, the location of the restaurant should be sent to the mobile phone’s GPS-navigation program. 
The user should then be navigated to the destination. When the destination is reached, a user 
should be able to go back to the search page on the mobile application.
RAT: To navigate a user to a chosen restaurant. DEP: FR7, FR8

ID: FR10
TITLE: Mobile application - Switch result view
DESC: A user should be able to switch between a map view and a list view for all search options.
RAT: In order for a user to switch between result views. DEP: FR7, FR8

ID: FR11
TITLE: Mobile application - Selecting the information link
DESC: A user should be able to select the information link, which is included on all result items. 
The link will direct the user to an information page, which includes a picture of the restaurant, 
the restaurant name, address, phone number, e-mail address, type of food, average price, restaurant 
description and a menu with name, description and price of the different dishes.
RAT: In order to show information about the restaurants. DEP: FR7, FR8

ID: FR12
TITLE: Mobile application - Search by price
DESC: A user should be able to input a maximum and a minimum price range. The result is displayed 
in a list view by default.
RAT: In order for a user to search by price. DEP: FR8

ID: FR13
TITLE: Mobile application - Search by destination
DESC: A user should be able to input a maximum and a minimum distance, according to his/her 
position. By default the minimum distance is set to 0 km and the maximum to 10 km. The user should 
be able to input a higher or lower maximum distance and a higher minimum distance than set by 
default. The result is displayed in a map view by default.
RAT: In order for a user to search by destination. DEP: FR7

ID: FR14
TITLE: Accepted input for price and destination search
DESC:  Integers should be accepted as input when a user searches by price or destination. If the 
system receives an invalid input the user should be informed and prompted to insert an accepted 
input.
RAT: In order for a user to search with valid input. DEP: FR12, FR13

ID: FR15
TITLE: Mobile application - Search by restaurant type
DESC: A user should be able to select a restaurant type in a given list as input. The result is 
displayed in a map view by default.
RAT: In order for a user to search by restaurant type. DEP: FR7

ID: FR16
TITLE: Mobile application - Search by specific dish
DESC: A user should be able to select a specific dish in a given list as input. The result is 
displayed in a map view by default.
RAT: In order for a user to search by specific dish. DEP: FR7

ID: FR17
TITLE: Mobile application - Free-text search
DESC: A user should be able to conduct a search by providing either restaurant name, restaurant 
description, restaurant address, restaurant type or restaurant menu in the free-text search field. 
The result is displayed in a map view by default.
RAT: In order for a user to search through the free-text search. DEP: FR7

ID: FR18
TITLE: Mobile application - No match found
DESC: If no match is found the user should be informed but kept on the search page in order to get 
the possibility to conduct a new search right away.
RAT: In order for user to conduct a new search if no match is found. DEP: FR5

ID: FR19
TITLE: Mobile application - Sorting results
DESC: When viewing the results in a list, a user should be able to sort the results according to 
price, distance, restaurant type, specific dish or restaurant name.
•     When sorting by restaurant name, specific dish or restaurant type the results should be 
ordered alphabetically.
•     When sorting by price the results should be ordered from cheapest to most expensive.
•     When sorting by distance the results should be ordered from closets to furthest distance 
according to the user’s position.

When the sort button for a specific search option is clicked, then the order should be reversed and 
ordered in a descending matter. If the sort button is clicked again the order of the results should 
be reversed.
RAT: In order for a user to sort results in a list. DEP: FR8

ID: FR20
TITLE: Mobile application - Filtering results
DESC: When viewing the results in a list or a map, a user should be able to filter the results in a 
filtering menu. The filtering options include:
•     increasing or decreasing the maximum distance
•     increasing or decreasing the maximum price
•     choosing a restaurant type
•     choosing a specific dish

When filtering the results, only the existing results shall be affected and a new search query 
should not be sent.
RAT: In order for a user to filter results in a list or a map. DEP: FR7, FR8

ID: FR21
TITLE: Mobile application - Profile page
DESC: On the mobile application, a user should have a profile page. On the profile page a user can 
edit his/her information, which includes the password, e-mail address and phone number. A user 
should also be able to choose what language the mobile application should be set to. The different 
language choices are Swedish, English, Spanish and French.
RAT: In order for a user to have a profile page on the mobile application. DEP: FR1

ID: FR22
Feature: Create an account In order to create an account A restaurant owner
Should register on the web-portal

Scenario: Required information for registration Given the restaurant owner wants to create an 
account And the restaurant owner does not have an account

When the restaurant owner registers on the web-portal by providing user-name And password
And address
And e-mail address And phone number
Then the restaurant owner should be able to apply for verification

Scenario: Full information for registration
Given the restaurant owner wants to create an account And the restaurant owner does not have an 
account
When the restaurant owner registers on the web-portal by providing user name And password
And address
And e-mail address And phone number And mobile number
Then the restaurant owner should be able to apply for verification

Scenario: Confirmed registration
Given the restaurant owner has applied for verification
And has not received a confirmation e-mail after registration When the restaurant owner receives a 
confirmation e-mail Then the restaurant owner should be able to log in

ID: FR23
Feature: Restaurant owner log-in
In order to use the system A restaurant owner
Should be logged in to the web-portal

Scenario: Successful log-in
Given the restaurant owner wants to log in
When the restaurant owner logs in with his/her account
Then the restaurant owner should be logged in as a restaurant owner

Scenario: Retrieve password
Given the restaurant owner wants to log in And has lost the password
When the restaurant owner enters his/her email address in the “Retrieve password” form And submits 
the form
Then the restaurant owner should receive an email containing the password

ID: FR24
Feature: Manage information In order to manage information A restaurant owner
Should be logged in to the web-portal


Scenario: Show fields for managing information
Given the restaurant owner is logged in
When the restaurant owner wants to manage information
Then the restaurant owner should be able to manage information in a form

Scenario: Filling in mandatory fields
Given the restaurant owner wants to fill in the mandatory fields of the form When the restaurant 
owner provides average price
And address
And e-mail address And phone number And restaurant name
Then the restaurant owner has filled the mandatory fields of the form

Scenario: Filling in optional fields
Given the restaurant owner of a restaurant wants to fill in optional fields in the form When the 
restaurant owner provides restaurant description
And menu
And type of restaurant And picture of restaurant And mobile phone
Then the restaurant owner has filled in optional fields in the form

Scenario: Filling in menu field
Given the restaurant owner wants to fill in the menu field in the form When the restaurant owner 
provides dish name
And dish description And dish price
Then the restaurant owner has filled in the menu field in the form

Scenario: Adding information with mandatory fields
Given the restaurant owner has filled in the mandatory fields of the form When the restaurant owner 
submits the form
Then the information about the restaurant should be added

Scenario: Adding information with mandatory and optional fields
Given the restaurant owner has filled in the mandatory fields of the form
And filled in one or more optional fields of the form When the restaurant owner submits the form
Then the information about the restaurant should be added

Scenario: Deleting information Given the restaurant owner is logged in And information exists
When the restaurant owner deletes information Then the information should be deleted
Scenario: Editing information
Given the restaurant owner is logged in And information exists
When the restaurant owner edits information Then the information should be edited

ID: FR25
Feature: Restaurant owner - Selecting preferred language on the web-portal
In order to understand the web-portal A restaurant owner
Should be able to select a preferred language for the web-portal

Scenario: Select English as preferred language
Given the restaurant owner wants to select a preferred language When the restaurant owner selects 
English as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in English
Scenario: Select Swedish as preferred language
Given the restaurant owner wants to select a preferred language When the restaurant owner selects 
Swedish as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in Swedish
Scenario: Select French as preferred language
Given the restaurant owner wants to select a preferred language When the restaurant owner selects 
French as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in French
Scenario: Select Spanish as preferred language
Given the restaurant owner wants to select a preferred language When the restaurant owner selects 
Spanish as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in Spanish

ID: FR26
Feature: Administrator log in In order to administer the system An administrator
Should be logged in to the web-portal

Scenario: Successful log-in
Given the administrator wants to log in
When the administrator logs in with an administrator account Then the administrator should be 
logged in as an administrator

ID: FR27
Feature: Verify restaurant owner
In order to allow a restaurant owner to use the system An administrator
Should be able to verify the restaurant owner

Scenario: Verify a restaurant owner
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator verifies a restaurant owner Then the restaurant owner should be able to log 
in
And the restaurant owner should be notified by a confirmation email

Scenario: Reject a restaurant owner
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator rejects a restaurant owner Then the restaurant owner should not be able to 
log in
And the restaurant owner should be notified by a rejection email

ID: FR28
Feature: Manage restaurant types
In order to have a list of restaurant types An administrator
Should be able to manage the restaurant types

Scenario: Add a new restaurant type
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator creates a new restaurant type
Then the new restaurant type should be added to the list of restaurant types

Scenario: Editing an existing restaurant type
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator edits an existing restaurant type
Then the restaurant type should be updated in the list of restaurant types

Scenario: Delete a restaurant type
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator deletes a restaurant type
Then the deleted restaurant type should be removed from the list of restaurant types

ID: FR29
Feature: Manage restaurant dishes
In order to have a list of dishes An administrator
Should be able to manage the dishes

Scenario: Add a new dish
Given the administrator is logged in When the administrator creates a new dish
Then the new dish should be added to the list of dishes

Scenario: Editing an existing dish
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator edits an existing dish
Then the dish should be updated in the list of dishes

Scenario: Delete a dish
Given the administrator is logged in When the administrator deletes a dish
Then the deleted dish should be removed from the list of dishes

ID: FR30
Feature: Manage restaurant information In order to manage restaurant information An administrator
Should be logged in to the web-portal

Scenario: Add restaurant information
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator adds restaurant information Then the information should be added to the 
restaurant
Scenario: Delete restaurant information
Given the administrator is logged in
And information about a restaurant exists When the administrator deletes the information
Then the information about the restaurant should be deleted

Scenario: Edit restaurant information
Given the administrator is logged in
And information about a restaurant exists When the administrator edits the information
Then the information about the restaurant should be edited

ID: FR31
Feature: Manage users
In order to keep track of the users An administrator
Should be able to manage the users

Scenario: Edit an existing user’s information
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator edits an existing user Then the user information should be updated
Scenario: Delete/Inactivate an existing user
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator deletes an existing user Then the user should be deleted

ID: FR32
Feature: Manage restaurant owners
In order to keep track of the restaurant owners An administrator
Should be able to manage the restaurant owners

Scenario: Add a new restaurant owner
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator creates a new restaurant owner Then the new restaurant owner should be added
Scenario: Edit an existing restaurant owner
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator edits an existing restaurant owner Then the restaurant owner information 
should be updated
Scenario: Delete an existing restaurant owner
Given the administrator is logged in
When the administrator deletes an existing restaurant owner Then the restaurant owner should be 
deleted
And the restaurant information should be deleted

ID: FR33
Feature: Administrator - Selecting preferred language on the web-portal
In order to understand the web-portal An administrator
Should be able to select a preferred language for the web-portal

Scenario: Select English as preferred language
Given the administrator wants to select a preferred language When the administrator selects English 
as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in English
Scenario: Select Swedish as preferred language
Given the administrator wants to select a preferred language When the administrator selects Swedish 
as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in Swedish
Scenario: Select French as preferred language
Given the administrator wants to select a preferred language When the administrator selects French 
as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in French
Scenario: Select Spanish as preferred language
Given the administrator wants to select a preferred language When the administrator selects Spanish 
as a new language Then the web-portal will show all text in Spanish