4.0 Functional Requirements
This section of the report outlines the functional requirements for Pontis 5.0 – the specific tasks and activities that the software enables, other functions needed to support the software, and the data that are required to support these requirements. The requirements are organized loosely around a set of Pontis 5.0 use cases. Each requirement is numbered for convenience. Please note that the “may” requirements in version 0.2 of the FRS have been moved to Section 7.4 - Waiting Room - for future review and discussion.
A separate database of requirements presents each of these narrative requirements generally following the Volere Requirements template specification and may be reviewed in conjunction with this document. In the Pontis 5.0 requirements database, requirements that apply only to the thin-client or thick-client implementations are tagged for clarity. Where appropriate, requirements that involve configurable control of program behavior are noted. For example, it may be that a user is not allowed multiple sessions of the application by agency policy, hence the requirement has a configuration implication.
The numbering convention below is to first identify the use case e.g., UC-1 View Bridge Data, then to document individual requirements within the use case e.g., …
1.3 The user shall be able to select structures by structure ID, district, county, administrative area (geographic group), ownership, custodianship, functional class, NHS status, on/off system, inspector, bridge group, inspection due dates, and all or some environment and elements. The query shall be restricted depending on the user privilege.
…
Requirements surrounded by boxes are new or significantly updated requirements for Pontis 5.0.
4.1 BROWSE DATA
UC-1 View Bridge Data
1.1 The user shall be able to view the data stored in the Physical Inventory tables through the Pontis graphical user interface (GUI).
1.2 The user shall be able to switch between predefined structure lists.
1.3 The user shall be able to select structures by structure ID, district, county, administrative area (geographic group), ownership, custodianship, functional class, NHS status, on/off system, inspector, bridge group, inspection due dates, and all or some environment and elements. The query shall be restricted depending on the user privilege.
1.4 The user shall be able to find structures based on the structure ID, structure name, feature intersected, facility carried, route number, LRS Inventory Route, KM/mile posts, structure types, design types and materials, and by searching the notes fields. The query shall be restricted depending on the user privilege.
1.5 The user shall be able to enter a WHERE clause of the SQL query in the Find and the Filter window and run a query against the bridges in the database. The query will be verified by the application and SQL errors will be reported to the user for correction. This capability shall be an application privilege. Bridge-level security of the user shall be applied automatically.
1.6 The user shall be able to select a structure by directly typing in the structure ID in GUI, with the display scrolling to that structure. Bridge-level security of the user shall be applied automatically.
1.7 The system shall display the data in the appropriate unit of measurement as configured for the application. This will be a permanent modal setting for the application. This setting shall be configurable (as stipulated in Requirement 22.1).
1.8 The user shall be able to select bridges on a supported map display and generate a bridge list for use within Pontis, for example, to perform a simulation analysis or to generate an inspection roster.
UC-2 View Project Data
2.1 The user shall be able to view the data stored in the Project Planning tables through the GUI.
2.2 The user shall be able to switch between predefined project lists.
2.3 The user shall be able to filter and select projects by structure ID, project ID, program, action type, project status, review status, treatment, program year, and project end date.
2.4 The user shall be able to find projects by project ID, project name, project status, structure ID, and program.
2.5 The user shall be able to filter and select work candidates by structure ID, project ID, program, action type, project status, review status, treatment, program year, and project end date.
2.6 The user shall be able to enter a WHERE clause of the SQL query in the Find and the Filter window and run a query against the projects in the database. The query will be verified by the application and SQL errors will be reported to the user for correction. This capability shall be an application privilege. Bridge-level security of the user shall be applied automatically.
2.7 The user shall be able to select a project by directly typing in the project ID in the GUI, with the display scrolling to that structure. Bridge or project level security of the user shall be applied automatically.
2.8 The user shall be able to select projects (work) on a supported map display and generate a project/bridge list for use within Pontis, for example, to display results of a simulation analysis or to generate a STIP display.
UC-3 Generate Predefined Reports
3.1 The user shall be able to select and execute predefined reports to view bridge data, project data, preservation model data, program simulation results, and configuration data. The existing Pontis reports shall form the basis for the predefined reports to be provided in Pontis 5.0.
3.2 The user shall be able to create reports in a .NET compliant report generator other than InfoMaker and review these reports from within the Pontis GUI.
3.3 The system shall provide the ability to integrate current selections with a .NET compliant report generator other than InfoMaker. AASHTO may provide users with a list of suggested report generators to replace PowerBuilder/InfoMaker.
3.4 The system shall provide the ability to incorporate PDF files into standard Pontis reports.
3.5 The system shall provide the ability to save reports in PDF, HTML, and XML formats.
UC-4 Select and View Pontis Information Using Maps
4.1 The system shall provide the ability to create any report that is bridge or project based by selecting the relevant “driver” records from a map display.
4.2 The system shall provide the ability to create or refresh a map display from a set of bridge or project records selected within the Pontis desktop.
4.2 BRIDGE INVENTORY & INSPECTION
UC-5 Create/Edit Structure
5.1 The user shall be able to create a new structure with a user-defined bridge key.
5.2 The user shall be able to create a new structure by copying all data of an existing structure.
5.3 The user shall be able to create new structure(s) by importing from a supported file type. The supported file types are to be determined, but will include at least PDI, NBI, and XML.
5.4 The user shall be able to edit and remove existing structures.
5.5 The system shall provide the ability to mark a bridge with any of several status values (e.g. inactive/closed) and automatically filter displays to recognize the status value (e.g. to automatically suppress inactive/closed structures).
5.6 The system shall support storage and management of information for bridges in a design or preconstruction state (functional requirement is related to 4.5 above)
5.7 The user shall be able to renumber the bridge key identifier and have the change made globally. This functionality shall be restricted depending on the user privilege.
UC-6 Create/Edit Inspection
6.1 The user shall be able to create a new inspection.
6.2 The user shall be able to create a new inspection by copying a previous inspection.
6.3 The user shall be able to identify and select any previous inspection as the source for the copy action. The selection can be made by combination of date, inspection type, inspector, or inspection control group.
6.4 The system shall have a short-form interface (display only NBI and element data, similar to SI&A sheet) for inspection data entry with specifics of design and functionality to be determined as part of the technical design.
6.5 The user shall have the option to copy the notes from previous inspection when creating a new inspection.
6.6 The user shall be able to create new inspection(s) by importing an PDI file.
6.7 The user shall be able to add new elements to the structure.
6.8 The user shall be able to edit all the NBI data
6.9 Changes to calculated results such as Sufficiency Rating or NBI Appraisal Ratings will be prohibited except for secured, privileged users.12
6.10 The user shall be able to edit element inspection data.
6.11 The user shall be able to edit the bridge inventory items excluding the dependent/derived values (i.e., the appraisal ratings that are calculated automatically).
6.12 The user shall be able to edit inspection and structure notes.
12 These derived values are only calculated by the FHWA or State implementation of the Edit Update program and are not user-modified.
6.13 The system shall be capable of storing notes in plain text and XML, and shall maximize the notes field size. The user shall be capable of setting the size of the notes field.
6.14 The user shall be able to create and edit work recommendations. The system shall be capable of estimating quantity for bridge type work recommendations.
6.15 The user shall be able to enter and update inspection planning information (i.e., frequency of regular and special inspections and estimated resource requirements).
6.16 The user shall be able to link and manage multimedia files.
6.17 The system shall provide an inspection scheduling tool.13
6.18 The system shall provide the capability to “lock down” an inspection record once signed and sealed to prevent deletion or modification.
6.19 Privileged users shall be able to delete an existing inspection unless it is “locked down”.
6.20 The user shall be able to sort the element data by unit number, environment, and quantity.
6.21 The user shall be able to view all data from any two inspections, for a single bridge, in a tiled14 presentation for easy comparison. The presentation (view/report) shall clearly highlight the difference between two inspections.
6.22 The system shall provide a configurable tracking mechanism to ensure that a set of screens and data fields have been reviewed and approved during the course of an inspection
UC-7 Calculate Dependent/Derived Inspection Results
7.1 The system shall be capable of calculating NBI condition ratings using the FHWA NBI Translator.
7.2 The system shall be capable of calculating and storing bridge Sufficiency Rating.
7.3 The system shall be capable of calculating appraisal ratings.
7.4 The system shall be capable of calculating Structurally Deficient/Functionally Obsolete (SD/FO) status.
13 Range of functionality is still to be determined. This requirement depends on consensus on the scheduling capability.
7.5 The ability of the user to update the calculated ratings and status in the database shall be a controlled privilege. Agencies may optionally exclude/prohibit direct edits to the calculated inspection results such as the NBI translator output. The agency shall therefore be able to enforce strict use of calculated translator results for calculating NBI condition ratings.
7.6 The system shall be capable of prompting users when the dependent fields for ratings are changed and offer the user option to recalculate the ratings.
7.7 The system administrator shall be able to configure the recalculation behavior of the derived data. The options shall include 1) do nothing, 2) alert user that recalculation is required and give option to recalculate before update/save, and 3) recalculate silently with no confirmation prompt when user saves the inspection.
7.8 The system shall eliminate any and all dependencies on workstation (user) control/parameter files for program operation. For example, parameter information required by the NBI Translator (including information currently stored in ELEMENTS.PRN and ERRORS.LST) will be stored strictly within the Pontis database rather than on individual user workstations.
4.3 PRESERVATION MODEL DEVELOPMENT15
UC-7 Develop Preservation Policy
7.1 The system shall be capable of creating cost and deterioration elicitation records for Pontis users.
7.2 The system shall be capable of updating the transition probabilities for preservation actions based on expert elicitations.
7.3 The system shall be capable of updating preservation action costs based on expert elicitations.
7.4 The system shall be capable of updating transition probabilities for do-nothing actions based on historical inspection data.
7.5 The user shall be able to edit the cost and deterioration models through the GUI and immediately see the impact on model recommendations.
7.6 The system shall be capable of using the transition probabilities and preservation action costs to develop an optimal preservation policy as detailed in the Pontis Technical Manual.
15 Please refer to section 4.3 of the Pontis Technical Manual for more information on the preservation model in Pontis.
7.7 The system shall be capable of recovering the model if the elicitation process fails.
7.8 The system shall be capable of restoring the previous action costs, transition probabilities, and preservation policy.
7.9 The system shall be capable of supporting multiple cost and deterioration models.
7.10 The system shall be capable of incorporating Health Index targets in a preservation (short-term) model.
7.11 The system shall streamline the model generation process (i.e. remove any unnecessary prompts as currently implemented in version 4.x).
UC-8 Perform Health Index Targeting
8.1 The system shall be capable of determining the long-term cost of achieving an average health index target for one or more structure(s), broken down by elements, element categories, for the entire structure.
UC-9 Provide Preservation Model Dashboard
9.1 The system shall provide a preservation model dashboard integrating the capabilities described above. The exact functionality of the dashboard will be informed by review of the results of NCHRP Project 12-67, Multiple-Objective Optimization for Bridge Management Systems.
4.4 PROGRAM SIMULATION16
UC-10 Configure Simulation Parameters
10.1 The user shall be able to specify the characteristics of the simulation, including the simulation timeframe, various thresholds for the simulation, the project types included in the simulation, the needs addressed, and the annual budget for the simulation.
10.2 The user shall be able to update the unit costs and the policy standards governing the improvement model.
10.3 The user shall be able to modify the technical parameters governing the simulation, including the parameters of the improvement model and the simulation rules.
16 Please refer to section 4.5 of the Pontis Technical Manual for more information on the program simulation in Pontis.
10.4 The user shall be able to select the structural elements to be included in the simulation.
10.5 The user shall be able to dynamically determine bridge subsets as part of the scenario settings.
UC-11 Perform Program Simulation
11.1 The system shall be capable of running a program simulation for a selected set of structures and storing the simulation results in the Pontis database.
UC-12 Perform Bridge Analysis
12.1 The user shall be able to choose from Pontis-generated work recommendations, inspector work candidates, and user-defined work items to include in the bridge simulation for a structure.
12.2 The system shall be capable of running bridge analysis for a single structure and storing the simulation results in the Pontis database.
12.3 The system shall provide a Bridge Analysis Dashboard that will allow the user to choose work items for a structure and the timing of the work, view the impact of the work on the condition of the structure, assign the work candidates to a project, and perform life-cycle cost analysis for the structure. The exact functionality of the dashboard will be informed by review of the results of NCHRP Project 12-67, Multiple-Objective Optimization for Bridge Management Systems.
4.5 PROJECT & PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT
UC-13 Create/Edit Programs
13.1 The user shall be able to create new programs by manually entering program information.
13.2 The user shall be able to edit or delete existing programs.
UC-14 Create/Edit Projects
14.1 The user shall be able to create new projects by manually entering the project information.
14.2 The user shall be able to edit or delete existing projects.
14.3 The user shall be able assign Pontis-generated work recommendations, inspector work candidates, and user-specified work items to a project, or remove work items from a project.
14.4 The user shall be able to split a project into multiple projects and combine multiple projects into a master project.
14.5 The user shall be able to edit the characteristics of multiple projects simultaneously (batch update).
14.6 The user shall be able to edit the data stored in the Project Planning tables through the GUI.
14.7 The system shall be capable of tracking and linking funding levels and project budgets. The system shall warn users if the project budget exceeds funding.
14.8 The system shall be capable of grouping work candidates by different action types – bridge-level, element-level, and flexible-level actions.
4.6 DATA MANAGEMENT
UC-15 Perform Data Validation
15.1 The system shall be capable of performing single-field and cross-field validation on NBI data items in batch mode.
15.2 The system shall be capable of performing configurable input range checks using the DATADICT table upon entering data.
15.3 The system shall be capable of performing data validation tasks including cross field validation upon saving data.
15.4 The system shall allow users to configure data validation rules. This shall be a privileged operation.
15.5 The system shall provide data review wizard for comparing incoming bridge data with existing data. The errors will be highlighted for easy review.
15.6 The system shall guarantee atomic database transactions to ensure maximum data integrity, using standard .NET transaction management capabilities.
15.7 The system shall maximize multi-user concurrency and conflict resolution in the application using standard .NET session and transaction management capabilities.
UC-16 Exchange Data
16.1 The user shall be able to exchange data in NBI format.
16.2 The user shall be able to exchange data in PDI format as specified in the Pontis Technical Manual.
16.3 The user shall be able to exchange data in XML format. The emerging TransXML schema specification17 shall be utilized once established and accepted.
16.4 The user shall be able to exchange bridge inspection data in PDI format.
16.5 The user shall be able to designate a recipient for checked-out bridges.
16.6 The system shall store all export/import control information within the database for central administration, eliminating any dependency on workstation control files to manage export/import behavior.18
16.7 The system shall strictly separate transient or volatile batch operation control records – e.g. bridge records to be included in a report – from more static control record – e.g. currently checked-out bridges.19
UC-17 Perform Data Archiving
17.1 The user shall be able to archive data for existing and removed structures.
17.2 A selection/filter capability shall be provided to restrict operations on active, inactive, or all structures during any data archiving activity.
17.3 The system shall provide reporting mechanism for viewing archived data.
17.4 The user shall be able to restore the archived data.
17.5 The system shall use timestamps in the database to log when rows were last changed.
UC-18 BRIDGEWare Integration Support
18.1 The system shall continue to provide existing application integration capabilities with BRIDGEWare products.
18.2 The system shall support concurrent storage in the database of planned, active, and inactive structures, and potentially other status/lifecycle phase indicators, to facilitate BRIDGEWare integration.
17 National Cooperative Highway Research Program (NCHRP) Project 20-64, XML Schemas for Exchange of Transportation Data
18 For example, the existing export control files (NONBRDG.TXT, BRIDGES.TXT) determine the list of tables to be included in PDI export.
19 The currently overloaded CICOCNTL table will have only the role of recording checked-out and checked-in bridges in Pontis 5.0. A separate batch management mechanism will be used to manage bridge subsets for reporting, program simulation, and other volatile batch operations.
4.7 SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION
UC-19 Define and Manage User Roles
19.1 The administrator shall be able to create and edit new application roles.
19.2 The administrator shall be able to assign users to application roles.
19.3 The system shall provide user interface for managing application roles.
19.4 The administrator shall be able to assign application permissions to each user roles.
UC-20 Manage Application Users
20.1 The administrator shall be able to add new users to the system.
20.2 The user shall be able to modify his or her basic account profile.
20.3 The administrator shall be able to create bridge-level access filters.
20.4 The administrator shall be able to assign bridge-level filters for each user.
20.5 The administrator shall be able to remove users from the system or disable access as appropriate.
UC-21 Perform User Authentication
21.1 The system shall be capable of validating user name and password during log-in process.
21.2 The system shall be capable of authorizing access to Pontis functionalities depending on the user’s privileges during log-in process.
21.3 The system shall be capable of tracking login and logout activity.
21.4 The system shall be capable of running concurrent sessions for a user.
21.5 The system shall be capable of supporting Windows Authentication mechanism for database access.20
21.6 The system shall be capable of initiating a session without a login prompt. This capability will provide support for an independent launch shell for Pontis and will be configured by the system administrator.21
20 The Windows Authentication capability is database vendor specific and only relevant to the client/server application components. Pontis 4.4 only supports this for Microsoft SQL Server 2000.
21 This is similar to Florida DOT’s application launcher and consistent with the Single Sign On capabilities currently used by many web portals.
21.7 The system shall be capable of integrating authentication and permissions with BRIDGEWare22.
21.8 The system shall be capable of operating with a single-sign-on authentication mechanism based on Active Directory Services or the LDAP standard.23
UC-22 Configure Application Functionalities
22.1 The administrator shall be able to configure the system units of measure in either English or metric mode. This will be a permanent setting for the application and database.24
22.2 The system shall be capable of storing the INI file configuration information in the database or workstation registry as appropriate, eliminating dependency on INI files for program operation.
22.3 The system will accommodate XP directory security and file permissions when storing any configuration or session parameters.
22.4 The administrator shall be able to edit the DATADICT table or its successor(s) through a GUI window.
22.5 The administrator shall be able to add and configure pre-populated new structure templates.
22.6 The administrator shall be able to configure field-level security.
22.7 The administrator shall be able to configure some fields as mandatory for user input.
22.8 The administrator shall be able to configure different levels of permission to control editing of checked-out bridges.
22.9 The system shall adhere to a .NET logging standard.
22.10 The system shall adhere to a .NET exception handling standard.
22.11 The administrator shall be able to configure the values in the dropdown lists in the system.
22 Note that this requirement implies that corresponding development work will be performed for Virtis/Opis. Where feasible, costs should be minimized by utilizing existing functionality.
23 It should be recognized that the Virtis/Opis application authentication/security control approach may need to be revised to accomplish this capability globally in the AASHTO BRIDGEWare software suite.
24 Data exchange operations will still support conversion, and the NBI tape will continue to be created in metric format only subject to NBIS reporting standards change at the Federal level.
22.12 The administrator shall be able to create agency-specific elements, including element definitions, condition states, actions, models and other related information.
22.13 The administrator shall be able to configure definitions of element types, environments, materials, and categories.
22.14 The administrator shall be able to add custom structure lists.
22.15 The administrator shall be able to add custom project lists.
22.16 The administrator shall be able to configure default values for various scenario parameters.
22.17 The administrator shall be able to configure customizable options that affect system operations.
22.18 The system shall validate all configuration options to verify proper program operation, including explicit identification of any potentially conflicting program options.
22.19 Configuration option validation shall be supported by a built-in diagnostic report.
UC-23 Configure User-Interface Presentation
23.1 The administrator shall be able to configure the labels of user interface items and screen displays.
23.2 The system shall be capable of supporting internationalization using the standard Windows/.NET internationalization support.
23.3 The system shall be capable of showing all screens, menus, user interface controls, prompts, error messages and information notices in native language, with some of these elements customizable.
UC-24 Admin Functionalities
24.1 The system shall provide an interface to communicate with an external service or third-party software. A set of standard interfaces25 will be defined for this capability.
24.2 The system shall provide application administrators with a secured tool for overriding bridge/project check-out status.
24.3 The system shall provide application administrators with a secured tool for clearing batch processing tables used by the system for deadlock/lockout resolution.
25 Web service and SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) will likely be used for these interfaces
24.4 The system shall provide a fixed set of predefined, secured, administration reports to document users, user roles, application privileges, user login sessions, checked-out bridges, and other key information necessary to manage application operation.
4.8 DATA REQUIREMENTS
A full, detailed data model for Pontis 5.0 will become part of the Pontis 5.0 System Design and is beyond the scope of this document. The Pontis 4.x/BRIDGEWare database design is assumed as the basis for these requirements except as indicated. The following is a list of basic table groupings as defined in the Pontis Technical Manual.
Physical Inventory: This set of tables contains data related to an agency’s physical bridge inventory. These include general inventory data, work candidates recommendations, structures exchanged during the check-in/check-out process, multimedia document links, and optional agency-specific inventory data.
Program Simulation: These tables store data related to the program simulation process. They contain elicitation data, deterioration model updating data, preservation policy, flexible action definitions, program simulation inputs, and simulation results.
Project Planning: These tables contain information about programs and funding sources, projects and their work items, agency-defined project data, and temporarily stored work items used to support the bridge analysis functionality.
Definition: Pontis system definitions are stored in these tables.
Application System: Application system tables store configuration data required for running Pontis. The tables contain system data including the data dictionary, parameter, configurable options, data on users and their roles, formulas, and other system data. It is likely that extensive changes will be made in these tables for Pontis 5.0, particularly to support auditing, logging, versioning, user authentication and session management, and other new capabilities.