2.2 DATA REQUIREMENTS
The following high-level data requirements are necessary to ensure that the data being collected, analyzed, and reported to support OM are clearly defined.
2.2.1 Entity Data
An entity is any being or object involved in a health event. Entities may be classified as a person, organization, location, animal, object, conveyance, event, or other organism. Each type of entity requires specific data to be collected.
2.2.1.1 Systems supporting OM must have the capability to capture demographic data about persons involved in an OM investigation, including: Subject ID, name, address, date of birth, gender, phone number, race, ethnicity, and country of citizenship.
2.2.1.1.a Other descriptive details may be captured, such as occupation and work history.
2.2.1.2 Systems supporting OM must have the capability to capture data about organizations (e.g., a local health department, a university, a professional association) involved in an OM investigation, including: organization name, location, and contact information.
2.2.1.3 Systems supporting OM must have the capability to capture data about locations involved in an OM investigation, including: name (if applicable), type (e.g., floor, building, room, store), street address, city, state, zip code, country, GPS coordinates, and other specific details (e.g., a specific building on a campus, a business branch location, a local chapter’s meeting hall)
2.2.1.4 Systems supporting OM must have the capability to capture data about any animals involved in an OM investigation, including: type (dog, monkey, etc), age, gender, owner’s name and address, color, weight, and species. A Subject ID should also be collected for animals in an OM investigation. It may be a challenge to ensure unambiguous identification because demographic details of an animal are not easily identified; therefore, animals involved in investigations may need to be tagged.
2.2.1.5 Systems supporting OM must have the capability to capture data for any object involved in an OM investigation, such as a letter, invoice, food item, or any object that cannot be classified as a “person, organization, place, or animal.” Collected data may include: name of the object, type, physical descriptors, address, identification number (e.g. serial number, package slip number), and relevant dates and times (e.g., invoice date, shipping date, packaging date).
2.2.1.6 Systems supporting OM must have the capability to capture data about any conveyance involved in an OM investigation, including: type of conveyance, route taken (e.g., flight number), etc.
2.2.1.7 Systems supporting OM must have the capability to capture data about any public or private gathering of people (e.g., church social, ball game) involved in an OM investigation, including: time, location, nature of the event, etc.
2.2.1.8 Systems supporting OM must have the capability to capture data about any living things other than persons or animals that are involved in an OM investigation, including: type of living thing, and other customizable data collection questions.
2.2.1.9 Systems supporting OM must have the capability to capture an entity’s travel history to support investigations of entities infected, exposed or potentially exposed.
2.2.2 Health Event Data
2.2.2.1 When a health event is investigated, it must be assigned an event identifier (i.e., Event ID) that is unique within the jurisdiction.
2.2.2.2 Data describing the health event should be captured, including the reason for the investigation, the category of event (e.g. environmental, infectious), the date the event began, the suspected agent (if known) or investigation focus, the geographic area impacted by the event, as well as the event status (e.g., open, closed).
2.2.2.3 Systems supporting OM should have the ability to record the case definition for a health event.
2.2.2.4 Systems supporting OM should have the ability to capture changes to the case definition that occur as the health event evolves.
2.2.3 Travel History and Conveyance Data
Travel history provides specific information to indicate when, where, and how subjects involved in an event traveled to a location (or to multiple locations), and conveyance data describes the vehicle in which the travel occurred. Examples of travel history include a person’s local travel as a part of their daily activities as well as the shipment of animals or plants from one country to another.
2.2.3.1 Travel history data should include information such as the method of transportation (e.g. bus, plane, boat, car), flight number, departure and arrival dates and times, and the origination and destination locations (city, state, and country).
2.2.3.1.a Information about each leg of a trip, as well as the parent information about the trip, should be captured. For example, if a person who lives in Georgia travels to Seattle and becomes exposed to monkey pox, then visits a friend in Santa Fe, travel history and conveyance data should be noted accordingly for each place the exposed person traveled.
2.2.3.2 Travel history data to be collected for an animal or object should include shipping invoices, animal shelter delivery and adoption receipts, and delivery schedules (including delivery vehicle and driver information).
2.2.3.3 Detailed conveyance data must be collected when relevant to the investigation, including the carrier identifier, the type of conveyance (such as airplane, bus, or train, among countless others), as well as the make, model, year, and identification number (e.g., VIN) of each vehicle with which the entity was in contact (if this information is relevant to the investigation).
2.2.4 Case Investigation and Exposure Contact Data
Case and exposure data provide more detailed information beyond demographic data. Cases can be persons or animals, and exposure contacts can be persons, animals, other organisms, or exposure settings, such as travel conveyance, location, organization, object, or event.
2.2.4.1 Because attributes of both case and exposure data may describe the same entity, systems supporting OM must have the ability to avoid capturing redundant entity demographic information.
2.2.4.2 Public Health Case Data
2.2.4.2.a Case data about the entity should include: a case identifier (i.e., Case ID) that is unique within the jurisdiction being reported, the suspected agent, case diagnosis, health status (e.g., no symptoms, acute illness), case status (e.g., confirmed, probable, suspect), investigation dates, clinical history, symptom onset date and time, epidemiological links to other cases, and priority (e.g., high, medium, low).
2.2.4.2.b There must be a means to update the case diagnosis either manually or automatically if the case definition changes during an event.
2.2.4.2.c Epidemiological (epi) data must be collected to assist in the case investigation of events. Standard epi data to be collected includes: onset date and time of symptoms, type of symptoms, risk factors, medical history data, laboratory data, procedure data, and questionnaire responses.
2.2.4.2.d Systems supporting OM must allow for dynamic, event-specific case investigation data to be captured.
2.2.4.2.e In the context of a case, all entities exposed to a case must be recorded and linked to the case.
2.2.4.2.f Demographic information should be collected about the investigator, including their name, address, and contact information, so that the investigator may be contacted to answer questions or to provide additional information.
2.2.4.2.g Both the jurisdiction investigating the event and the jurisdiction reporting the cases and associated investigations must be captured. For example, if a person becomes ill during travel in one jurisdiction but is the resident of another, the illness will be reported by the state (jurisdiction) of residence and investigated by the jurisdiction visited.
2.2.4.2.h Systems supporting OM should have the ability to classify entities associated with the investigation as investigation controls. For example, controls share demographic characteristics with the subject of the case, but are not infected with the agent that is the focus of the investigation.
2.2.4.3 Exposure Contact Data
2.2.4.3.a Exposure investigation data to be captured must include information related to exposure levels, type of exposure (e.g., intimate, social, household, common conveyance), place of exposure, length of time the entity was exposed, frequency of exposure, and the entity’s proximity to the source of exposure.
2.2.4.3.b Detailed data must be collected about the source of exposure as well as the exposed entity to support contact exposure tracing. Exposure data related to both the potential source and the potential spread include the entity’s type, Subject ID, Contact ID, contact’s name and address, exposure dates and times, health status, and priority code.
2.2.4.3.c Epi data must be collected to assist in the exposure investigation of health events. Standard epi data to be collected for exposure investigation parallels the data to be collected for case investigation and includes: onset date and time of symptoms, type of symptoms, risk factors, laboratory data, procedure data, and questionnaire responses.
2.2.4.3.d Systems supporting OM must support capturing dynamic, event-specific data that describes contact between two subjects.
2.2.5 Monitoring and Follow-up Data
Monitoring and follow-up data is used to track the progress and treatment of subjects who were exposed or potentially exposed to a health event. For more information about monitoring and follow-up data, please reference “PHIN Countermeasure/Response Administration Functional Requirements and Process Flows”, available at www.cdc.gov/phin.
2.2.5.1 Systems supporting OM should support the monitoring and follow-up activities required when tracking the status of cases and exposed individuals.
2.2.5.1.a Monitoring data should be collected about cases and exposed individuals who are isolated or quarantined because of a health event.
2.2.5.1.b Follow-up data should be collected from subjects or their proxies to track symptoms and compliance with recommended treatment plans or prophylaxis.
2.2.5.1.c Follow-up data may be received from take response exams of persons who received a countermeasure that requires such an exam (i.e., smallpox vaccination).
2.2.6 Specimen/Sample Collection and Laboratory Response Data
Specimen/sample collection and laboratory response data supports the collection of clinical specimens, food samples, environmental samples, and other types of samples that will be tested for biological, chemical, and radiological agents. These specimens/samples can be collected from places, persons, animals, or environmental sources such as air, water, food, or soil.
2.2.6.1 Specimens/samples collected for laboratory testing must be assigned an identifier (i.e., Specimen ID) that is unique within the jurisdiction.
2.2.6.2 The subject of a specimen/sample collected for laboratory testing must be linked to the specimen/sample by an identifier (i.e., Subject ID) that is unique within the jurisdiction.
2.2.6.3 Systems supporting OM must be able to store data about the specimens/samples that are collected for laboratory testing. Examples of this data are: Specimen ID, Subject ID, purpose for test, collection date and time, subject type (e.g., human, plant, animal, food), specimen category, specimen type, suspected agent, risk indicator (e.g., infectious, radioactive, corrosive), person performing specimen/sample collection (including contact information), location of collection, and volume and quantity details.
2.2.6.3.a Clinical specimen data should include information about the specimen source/site from which the specimen was taken, symptom date of onset, and whether the sample is acute or convalescent.
2.2.6.3.b Environmental sample data should include information about the collection method, location (geocoded if possible) from which the sample was taken, source (e.g., rain or well for water, radiation release, asbestos, chair or desk in a specified location), nature of the sample (e.g., soil, water, air), quality control data, collection begin and end date and time for air samples, and original volume and volume of concentrate tested for water samples.
2.2.6.3.c Food sample data should include information about the lot number, batch number, manufacturer name, shipping invoice, temperature, sample type (e.g., dairy – milk, red meat, spice), and product storage condition.
2.2.6.3.d Bar-coding should be supported for the capture of detailed specimen/sample data to improve the quality and efficiency of data collection.
2.2.6.4 Chain of custody information for all specimens/samples should be captured.
2.2.6.5 Chain of custody information for forensic and select agent samples must be captured, including the person who collected the sample, the location of collection, all people who came into contact with the sample during the preparation for shipment to the laboratory, and the acceptance of the package by the shipper.
2.2.6.6 Systems supporting OM must be able to create a laboratory test request for a specimen/sample or group of specimens/samples. More information about creating laboratory test requests is found in section 2.5 System Integration and Data Exchange of this document.
2.2.6.7 Information about batch shipments of specimens/samples that are transferred to test laboratories or other facilities must be collected, including the shipper (e.g., UPS, FedEx), shipment tracking number, and the sending organization’s contact information.
2.2.6.8 Systems supporting OM should be able to support the inclusion of labeling, packaging and shipping instructions (e.g., container type, storage condition, preservative), and the shipping manifest with batch shipments of specimens/samples.
2.2.6.9 Systems supporting OM must be able to store laboratory result(s) and link the result(s) to the original laboratory test request. More information about receiving and linking laboratory test requests is found in section 2.5 System Integration and Data Exchange of this document.
2.2.6.10 Systems supporting OM must store data about laboratory results. Examples of this data include the Specimen ID, Subject ID, test date and time, test type (LOINC), data for each organization involved in the testing of the specimen/sample (e.g., testing or reference laboratory name, location, contact information), laboratory results and result values (SNOMED), other data such as unit of measure for result value, overall interpretation, and any relevant notes.
2.2.6.10.a If the specimen/sample collection record exists, the laboratory result must be linked to the specimen collection record by the Specimen ID.
2.2.6.10.b If the specimen/sample collection record does not exist, the laboratory result must be linked to the subject by the Subject ID.
2.2.6.10.c All levels of granularity of results (e.g., specimen/sample level, assay level) must be supported.
2.2.7 Prophylaxis and Treatment Data
2.2.7.1 Systems supporting OM should capture or be linked to data regarding the prophylaxis or treatment to cases, exposed individuals, or at risk persons, including the person who ordered the prophylaxis or treatment, and the name, date, type, duration, and dosage of the treatment or prophylaxis given. For specific data requirements regarding the administration of prophylaxis and treatment, please reference PHIN Preparedness Countermeasure/Response Administration Functional Requirements and Process Flows, available at www.cdc.gov/phin.
2.2.7.2 Contraindication information should be collected to indicate why vaccinations, treatments, or antidotes may not have been administered or why the patient may not have complied with prescribed interventions.
2.2.8 Adverse Event Data
2.2.8.1 If an affected person suffers a negative reaction to a vaccine or prophylaxis that was administered, adverse event data may be collected and used to determine the need for additional interventions or to determine if there is a problem with the pharmaceutical, batch, or the administering facility or person. For specific data requirements regarding adverse event data, please reference PHIN Preparedness Countermeasure/Response Administration Functional Requirements and Process Flows, available at www.cdc.gov/phin.
2.2.9 Activity Logging Data
2.2.9.1 Systems supporting OM should capture information such as the date and time of an activity, activity type, who initiated the activity, and contact information to generate activity logs for management purposes.
2.2.9.2 Activity logs, which are tools for investigators to track their actions during a case, should be supported. For example, investigators may log calls made to monitor symptoms or calls made to schedule follow-up visits.
2.2.9.3 Activity logs may also provide information needed to support communication with various jurisdictions in the event that the investigation crosses jurisdictional boundaries. For example, if a person becomes ill during travel in one jurisdiction but is the resident of another, the illness will be reported by the state (jurisdiction) of residence, rather than by the jurisdiction visited.
2.3 SYSTEM FUNCTIONS AND BEHAVIORS
2.3.1 Case Investigation
2.3.1.1 Electronic questionnaires must be developed and validated. They will be designed by investigators to collect common data elements (e.g., patient demographics, test results, exposure contacts), agent-specific data elements (e.g., specific laboratory test), and other customized data elements.
2.3.1.1.a Electronic questionnaires should provide the capability to accept digital signatures.
2.3.1.2 Systems supporting OM must provide the ability to control the configuration of and revisions to investigation-specific questionnaires.
2.3.1.3 Systems supporting OM must provide the ability to publish investigation-specific questionnaires and implementation guides.
2.3.1.4 Case investigation should be supported by reusable questionnaire libraries that use common terminology (where available) to maximize the efficiency of data exchange.
2.3.1.5 Systems supporting OM should provide a manual or automatic means of updating the status of case records as the case definition changes.
2.3.1.6 Systems supporting OM should track the changes made to the status of case records as a result of changes in the case definition.
2.3.2 Linking
Linkages allow investigators to create meaningful analysis, characterize the event, and identify at-risk populations.
2.3.2.1 Systems supporting OM must support dynamically defined associations between entities for the purpose of defining relationships. For example, person-to-person (e.g., family relationship, exposure relationship), person-to-place (e.g., household, common place), animal-to-person, object-to-place, person-to-travel.
2.3.2.2 Entity-to-epi data links must match the entity to their symptoms, survey questions, specimens/samples collected, laboratory results, and prophylaxis and treatment data.
2.3.2.3 Each new case must be able to link an assigned Entity ID to an Event ID within the scope of the investigation.
2.3.2.4 Systems supporting OM require the ability to capture information about possible cases and potential contacts from the identification process through the treatment and follow-up process, as supported by linkages among entities, events, and actions.
2.3.2.5 Laboratory results must be linked to corresponding specimens/samples including multiple results from one specimen/sample), and subjects when the participating laboratory returns the results. These linkages must unambiguously associate multiple laboratory results to case and contact identifiers.
2.3.2.5.a If the specimen/sample was created from another specimen/sample (e.g., aliquots, and new specimen types created from a source sample), laboratory results for the child specimens/samples must be linked to the corresponding parent specimen/sample.
2.3.3 Contact Exposure Tracing
2.3.3.1 Each investigation subject may be associated with exposure contacts, including unambiguous links to contacts in other jurisdictions.
2.3.3.2 Contacts of exposed entities (e.g., people, animals, places) may be traced, investigated, and monitored.
2.3.3.3 Systems supporting OM should be able to create new contacts from existing case records, and should also identify the contact type.
2.3.3.4 Systems supporting OM must support contact exposure tracing by allowing one contact to be linked to multiple cases, and allowing multiple contacts to be linked to a single case.
2.3.3.5 Systems supporting OM should be able to produce contact work lists for each investigator to use, and should allow sorting by priority or geography.