As defined in sections 1.1 and 1.4, the application for ABC Paint will be a first-of-type solution to
ensure that their business and their customer’s paint selecting experience maintains continuity and
consistency throughout their transition to an entirely new product line.
The product is a stand-alone web application with a theme mechanism to allow easy integration
of the application into the ABC Paint website. The ColorKast solution is a server based
application with a web-based client for consumer and enterprise access.
In some respects, the application is the next generation of the old mechanical, hand-select,
palette board system located in paint stores everywhere.
Primarily, the application will include a old to new product-line “translator,” a graphical color
chooser, a color search-engine, a user color palette, possibly, an easy to use color matching
system, and an administrative interface. All of these will be defined and described later in this
same document. The actual user interface will be described in a separate user interface
specification whitepaper.
All references to performance or specification apply to the application client. Specifications and
performance estimates apply to the application server only if explicitly stated.

These functions are modularized sub-components of the client application. Each of the functions
has a single purpose and can accomplish its mission without the other components. Together, the
components function as a stand-alone application.
· Color Chooser (Pointing device driven color selection utility)
· Color number translator (old scheme -> new scheme)
· Find a particular number of colors near a given color
· Session persistent user color palette (colors picked, images uploaded)
· Color search engine (all collections, specific collection)
· Color matching (uploaded image, see section 4)
· Administrative interface (update, add, delete colors, add users)

ColorKast has identified two user classes for access to the new application. The first user class is
default for all users and allows no administrative functionality whatsoever. The second class, the
administrative user, is composed of several subclasses for the secure management of access to
data and permissions throughout the organization.

Default: This user has access to all functionality of the application except the administrative
function. The user data stored by this user is not password protected but is session
persistent.
Administrative: This user is composed of three subclasses. Level 3, the highest level
administrative user has all access, update, add, delete permissions, and can
create other administrative users at any level. Level 2, has update, add
permissions, and can create administrative users up to Level 2. Level 1, has
add permissions and can add administrative users at Level 1 only.

The proposed ColorKast Solution will be implemented in a client/server model. All processing of
searches and storing of information will be local to the server.
Server: The server requires at least a 1GHz processor and 512 MB of system memory for
each group of 50 employee or consumer users.
Client: The web-based client is compatible with most operating systems and requires a
working installation of Internet Explorer 4.01, Netscape 6.0, or Mozilla 1.0 or later.
The client computer should match or exceed the system requirements specified for
the web browser intended for use with the client application.

A few issues limit our choices when implementing a suitable solution for the ABC Paint Project.
It is very important that the application be web-based. We understand that in any design choice,
precedence should be given to the implementation of a completely web-based client.
Wherever possible, the application should retain full usability with a keyboard input device only.
This allows an easy transition for employees who are primarily used to keyboard input in current
ABC Paint business applications.
Finally, a utility should be available to report errors. In all instances, the application should
attempt full recovery and report errors automatically to ColorKast without encroaching on the user
experience.

ColorKast assumes that any use of the application will occur in an environment with full
compliance to this specification.
The application will be used on a client computer that matches or exceeds the requirements laid
out in section 2.4. The server component of the application will run on a computer system that
matches or exceeds the requirements laid out for the server in section 2.4.

We assume that the application will only be in use for duration of the wide-installation of the
software and hardware, as defined in this document, that is required for installation of the server
component and use of the client application.
We assume that finding the nearest colors in the red-green-blue color space will always give
acceptably similar colors to the given color for the purpose of color search.
The application will be dependant on third-party databases for storage of paint information and
implementation of the color search engine. The databases will give responses to Queries in subsecond
time.


The graphical color chooser will be a pointing device driven intuitive color selection tool. 
The color chooser requires the presence of a hardware pointing device.

The color translator is a special case of the color search engine. The color translator allows old
scheme to new scheme paint number translation, given a paint number, collection and a target
collection. The color translator requires the presence of the software color search module.

The closest color tool is a special case of the color search engine. The closest color tool allows the
user to locate an arbitrary number of close colors to given a paint number, collection in a target
collection. The closest colors tool requires the presence of the software color search module.

The color search engine tool will allow locating an arbitrary number of colors in any or all
collections based on initial input of a paint name, number, or color value in a industry standard
common format. The color search engine requires the color space and paint information databases
to be present. These two databases store paint and collection information.

This is a user experience tool. The user color palette tool will store a list of the user’s recent color
searches. If the color sample matcher is loaded, the user color palette tool will also store recent
uploaded images for matching. The user color matcher only associates this information with a
single client based on a persistent client session. This user data will be removed from the server
after 30 days. This information is private but not secure. The User Color Palette requires the color search engine for color requests and the
color sample matcher to enable the storing of uploaded images for matching.

The administrative interface allows administrative users to update, add, and delete paint
information. Administrative users are also able to add users. Refer to section 2.3 for development
and implementation of user classes and access permissions. The application administrative interface requires the color space and paint
information databases to be present.

The color sample matcher allows the client user to upload images in a common format for
matching. The color sample matcher will allow the user to graphically select with a hardware
pointing device the color or blended color group they wish to use in a color search. The color sample matcher requires the color search engine module to function. The
color chooser requires the presence of a hardware pointing device.