3. Data Model and Description

3.1 Data objects

Child Data Object
 ChildID A unique identifier assigned to the child.
 ParentID The parent's identification number.
 Name The child’s name.
 BirthDate The child's birth date.
 Gender The child’s gender.
 ClassroomID The classroom that the child has been assigned to.
 SpecialNeeds Any special needs such as allergies or physical handicaps.
 Photo A photo of the child.
 Status Indicates if the child is enrolled or on a waiting list.
 Comments A teacher's comments about the child's behavior.


Parent Data Object
 ParentID A unique number assigned to the parent.
 Name The parent’s name.
 Address The address of the parents.
 HomePhone The home phone number for the parents.
 WorkPhone A work phone number for a parent.
 Email An email address for the parents.
 EmgName A name to contact in an emergency if the parents cannot be reached.
 EmgPhone The phone number to call in an emergency if the parents cannot be reached.
 AuthPickUp The name of someone the parent has authorized to pick up their child.


Employee Data Object
 UserID A unique number assigned to the employee.
 Password The employee's password used to log on to the computer system.
 FirstName The employee's first name.
 LastName The employee's last name.
 Classification The job classification of the employee. Limited to administrator, teacher, or assistant.


Classroom Data Object
 ClassroomID A unique number for the classroom.
 Name The name of the classroom.
 RoomNo The classroom number.
 PhoneNumber The phone number for the classroom.
 Teacher The name of the teacher assigned to the classroom.
 Assistant The name of the teacher assistant assigned to the classroom.


Bill Data Object
 InvoiceID A unique number for an invoice. Invoices are issued each month to every parent.
 ParentID The identifier number of a parent.
 AmountDue The amount owed for a particular invoice.
 AmountPaid The amount that has been paid for a particular invoice.
 DatePaid The date the invoice was paid.


Call Sheet Data Object
 ChildID The identifier number of a child.
 Date The date that the information was entered.
 SignIn The time the child arrived at the Day Care Center.
 SignOut The time the child left the Day Care Center.


Change Data Object
 UserID The number of the employee changing the record.
 Time The time of the change.
 Description A description of the change being made.


Immunization Data Object
 ImmuneID A unique number assigned to the immunization record.
 ChildID The identifier number of the child that received the immunization.
 Type A description of the immunization.
 Date The date that the immunization was received.


Registration Data Object
 ChildID The identifier number of the child.
 RegisterDate The date that the child registered.
 EnrollDate The date that the child actually enrolled.
 WithdrawDate The date that the child withdrew.


Reminder Data Object
 ReminderID A unique identifier for the reminder.
 EmployeeID The ID number of the employee entering the reminder.
 Date The date of the reminder.
 Message The reminder message to be displayed.
^ TOP

3.2 Relationships

 In order for a parent to have an account with the Child Care Center they must have at least one child. Since a parent can have multiple children a one-to-many relationship exists. It is also true that a parent and child cannot exist alone in the NCCM system. In general all children must have parents and a parent without a child has no need to register for the Day Care Center.

 A parent will receive a new bill each month so a one-to-many relationship exists. Before the first month of enrollment a parent may exist without a bill, however after the first month the two data objects cannot exist alone.

 Each classroom can hold up to twenty children so the twenty-first child will be added to a waiting list. With fewer than 21 children there is no need for a waiting list; however a waiting list must always be associated with a classroom. A one-to-one relationship exists because a classroom will have at most one waiting list and each list can only be used for a single classroom.

 An immunization data object is created for every immunization a child receives. Therefore each child will have many immunizations and a one-to-many relationship exists. A child will not be admitted without an immunization, therefore an immunization and child cannot exist alone.

 An employee may add multiple events to their daily reminder list so a one-to-many relationship exists. Since the employee may not need to be reminded of anything it is possible for an employee to exist without a daily reminder, but a daily reminder must be assigned to a specific employee.

 Each time an employee edits a record it will be recorded in the change data object. Most employees will make multiple changes so there is a one-to-many relationship between employees and change data objects. An employee may not make any changes and can therefore exist alone. However, a change object must be associated with an employee and therefore cannot exist alone.

 An immunization object will be created for a child each time they receive a new immunization, therefore a one-to-many relationship will exist. A new call sheet object will be created every day so it will also be in a one-to-many relationship with the child. The registration data object could also be in a one-to-many relationship because a child could withdraw and then reenroll. Typically there will only be a one-to-one relationship between the child and registration objects, but this is not by design. Neither the immunization, call sheet or registration objects can exist without a child object.

 Each classroom can have up to twenty children so a one-to-many relationship exists between classrooms and children. It is also true that a classroom and child should not exist alone.